The comparison between the values of « contained in the
preceding table, and those computed for the several values
of c from the formula ( z), making M = 46:63 and ©='5491,
is made in the following table ; and their agreement is such,
that there can be no doubt, that the effects produced on the
magnets by the rotation of the ring at different distances are
correctly represented by this formula,


112 Mr. CurisTIE on the mutual action of

Table X,

Diff, between | Quotient of this

Da of Values of M
; Values of & | Obzerred | reputed from | the obaerved | diff, divided by | deduced from
teen Pw M x and computed} the computed the separate
= FOI j values of &. value of &@. observations,
inches,
2256 69'8 68*39 47108
1-756 16478 46'221
1-506 273'g8 46410
1-256 | 4777 48079 46-480
1:006 870'3 89221 46054
0756 1731'S 47242

Mean value of M from the separate observations 46+586

Whether the-close agreement between the results deduced
from the formulas (1) and (5), and the several observations
which I have detailed, or the small differences in the con-
stants' deduced from the separate observations in each of the
foregoing cases, be considered as a test of the correctness of
these formulas, there can, I think, be no doubt that they will
very accurately. represent the effects that are produced,
whether by the rotation of magnets on a copper ring, or on
magnets by the rotation of a ring, within certain limits of the
distance between the magnets and the ring. Having succeeded 'in determining from experiment the law
according to which the forces acting during rotation varied at
different distances, for which purpose principally I had under-
taken these experiments, my next object was to ascertain
whether the formula I had obtained would result from- the
principle, that time is necessary both for the developement
of magnetism by induction, and for its dissipation, and which
appeared to be implied in the formula.


the particles of magnetic:bodies, Sc." 113

We have as yet no facts which /indicate on what function
of the time either the developement or' dissipation ' of mag-
netism depends ; and until this can be ascertained, there
appears little prospect of obtaining a complete solution to this
interesting but intricate problem in magnetism. ' It appeared
to me not improbable, that when the distance of a magnetic |
pole from a body capable of becoming magnetic by induction,
is 8uddenly decreased, the magnetism developed in any. very
small portion of time, varies as the time and the magnetism
yet remaining to be developed, before it has attained the
maximum 'intensity of which it is susceptible at this dimi-
nished distance, and which may be called the intensity due
to this distance ; and that on the contrary, on the removal of
the pole, the magnetism dissipated varies as the time and the
excess of the intensity above the minimum at the increased
distance; the rate of developement and dissipation not being
however, ceteris paribus, necessarily the same. I accordingly
assumed this, in order to obtain the intensity of the mag-
netism in any point of the ring in terms of its distance from
the pole of the magnet ; but although the differential equa-
tion that would result from this assumption is integrable, s0
that the intensity of the point may be determined, yet as it is
in a series whose: convergency depends upon the smallness
of the angular distance between that. point. and the: point
vertically over the pole of the magnet, and a second inte-
gration is required to deduce the force with which the mag-
nets urge the ring, the result is rendered; 80 complicated,

that to reduce it to any form with which the formula I have

obtained from experiment may, be / compared, appears almost

a hopeless task.. -I consider therefore that, in order to. obtain
MDCCOXXVIL, Q ,


114 Mr. CurisTIE on the mutual action of

theoretical results, it is better to adopt in a more general way
the principle to which I have referred.