On the other hand, I see reason
to believe that the process of respiration -is in itself more
simple than is imagined, and more within the reach of disco-
very by means of accurate anatomical knowledge of the parts
employed, than by means of acquaintance with the intricacies
belonging to chemical affinities: I carry this .s0 far as to
contend that -no explanation of respiration upon chemical
principles is to be depended on, unless it accord in all respects
with the anatomy and physiology of the lungs, by which the
assumed process takes place. The present theory respecting respiration adopted by the
chemists, is, that this process decarbonises the blood in the
following manner; at every inspiration a compound of


Sir EverarD Home's examination into the structure, &c. 39

oxygen and nitrogen, mixed together, is received . into the
lungs, and in every expiration, the-same volume is returned,
measure for measure . exactly, with this only difference, that
what entered as oxygen is returned-in the-form of carbonic
acid gas, which, according to their theory, proves that no part
of the inspired atmospheric air has been retained-in the lungs,
but a quantity of carbon, equal to that of the oxygen inspired,
has been extracted from the blood by the oxygen, making it
become carbonic acid gas. Nothing could be more ingenious than this theory, were it
supported by: the structure of the lungs themselves, and it
could be proved that the blood requires no other changes for
its purification ;. since all the leading facts on which-it is
founded, are completely establighed upon the firm basis of
experiment. '

When this theory was formed, the structure of the air
cells of the lungs had never been examined, the more minute
structures -in animal bodies being at that time considered
beyond the reach of examination ; and it is the object of the
present communication, to bring forward an explanation of
the mechanism of the cells of the lungs, as well as of the
different distributions of the vessels that ramify through those
organs, acquired from Mr. Bavts's microscopical observa-
tions, and to see how far they are fitted for the process, which
by this theory is allotted to them. In this investigation, I began by an enquiry into the circula-
tion of the blood through the lungs, in the labour of which
I have been very ably assisted by Mr.