Now both the solntions used are conductors, but the conduction in them is
essentially connected with decomposition (858.) in a certain constant order, and
therefore the appearance of the elements in certain places shows in what direction a
current has passed when the solutions are thus employed. Moreover, we find that
when they are used at opposite ends of the plates, as in the last two experiments
(889. 890.), metallic contact being allowed at the other extremities, the currents
are in opposite directions. We have evidently, therefore, the power of opposing the
actions of the two fluids simultaneously to each other at the opposite ends of the
plates, using each one as a conductor for the discharge of the current of electricity,
which the other tends to generate; in fact, substituting them for metallic contact, and
combining both experiments into one (fig. 4.), Under these circumstances there is
an opposition of forces : the fluid, which brings into play the stronger set of chemical
affinities for the zinc, (being the dilute acid,) overcomes the force of the other, and
determines the formation and direction of the electric current ; not merely making
that current pass through the weaker liquid, but actually reversing the tendency
which the elements of the latter have in relation to the zinc and platina if not thus
counteracted, and forcing them in the contrary direction to that they are inclined to
follow, that its own current may have free course. If the dominant action at y be
removed by making metallic contact there, then the liquid at & resumes its power ;
or if the metals be not brought into contact at y, but the affinities of the solution
there weakened, whilst those active at are strengthened, then the latter gains the
ascendancy, and the decompositions are produced in a contrary order.

892, Before drawing a final conclusion from this mutual dependence and state of
the chemical affinities of two distant portions of acting fluids (916,), I will proceed to
examine more minutely the yarious circumstances under which the reaction of the
decomposed body is rendered evident upon the action of that body, also in the act of
decomposition, which produces the yoltaic current.

893. The use of metallic contact in a single pair of plates, and the cause of its great


USE OP METALLIC CONTACT IN THE VOLTAIC APPARATUS. 429

snperiority above contact made by other kinds of matter, hecome now very evident.