The
first is the case of volta-electric excitation, the other ordinary chemical affinity : but
both are chemical actions and due to one force or principle.

948. The general cireumstances of the former mode occur in all instances of yoltaic
currents, but may be considered as in their perfect condition, and then free from those
of the second mode, in some only of the cases; as in those of plates of zine and platina
in solution of potassa, or of amalgamated zinc and platina in dilute snlphurie acid.

949. Assuming it sufficiently proved, by the preceding experiments and considera-
tions, that the electro-motive action depends, when zinc, platina, and dilute sulphuric
acid are used, upon the mutnal affinity of the metal zine and the oxygen of the
water (921. 924.), it would appear that the metal, when alone, has not power enough,
under the cireumstances, to take the oxygen and expel the hydrogen from the com-
bination ; for, in fact, no such action takes place. But it would also appear that it
has power 80 far to act, by its attraction for the oxygen of the particles in contact


STATE OF TENSION BETWEEN THE ZINC AND WATER. 443

with it, as to place the similar forces already active between these and the other par-
ticles of oxygen and the particles of hydrogen in the water, in a peculiar state of
tension or polarity, and probably also at the same time to throw those of its own
particles which are in contact with the water into a similar but opposed state. Whilst
this state is retained, no further change occurs; but when it is relieved, by com-
pletion of the circuit, in which case the forces determined in opposite directions, with
respect to the zinc and the electrolyte, are found exactly competent to neutralize each
other, then a series of decompositions and recompositions takes place amongst the
particles of oxygen and hydrogen constituting the water, between the place of relief
and the place where the zinc is active; these interyening particles being evidently in
close dependence upon and relation to each other. 'The zinc forms a direct compound
with those particles of oxygen which were, immediately before, in divided relation to
both it and the hydrogen : the oxide is removed by the acid, and a fresh surface of
contact between the zinc and water is presented, to renew and repeat the action.

950.