This however. is not the only anomaly
which the triple prussiates present, the following being mr”
very remarkable. The black oxide of iron contained in them cannot be thrown
down by the addition of any of the hydrosulphurets, succinates,
gallates, or any other tests for iron. \

This oxide always accompanies the Prussic/ acid, when the
latter is transferred by NO affinities from "one base to
another. For most of the facts just related; I'am indebted-to the ex-
cellent paper of PRovsT, entitled « Facts towards a History of
the Prussiates.” It appeared to me to be necessary to restate
these facts in order' to render clear the objects of this commu-
nication, which are to reconcile with the getieral properties of
other saline bodies the anomalies which*the triple prussiates
present ; to simplify the received opinion respecting their
nature, and to make known some new acids which : have dis-
covered. In endeavouring to accomplish these objects, T'shall first
state my opinion of the nature of the triple prussiates-as they
are called, and afterwards support it by experiments. I consider the $alts termed triple prussiates as binary com-


termed triple Pruss!ates, 529

pounds of an, acid with a single base; as salts which do not
contain; any/Prussic acid, nor, any oxide of iron as @ base, al-
though both these,substances. may be obtained from them by
a. decomposition.of their acid, f
\ The! first- experiment which I'shall adduce- in support of the
above opinion is, one with the Voltaic, battery; it appeared, to
me that this instrument would shew whether the oxide of iron
inthe: triple; prussiates exited. in them as a base, or as an
element of a-peculiar acid by attracting it to the negative pole
in the former, and to the positive pole in the latter case, I
therefore exposed a solution of triple prussiate of soda to the
agency ofa small battery of fifty pair of double plates of one
inch and a quarter $quare, kept in action for twenty hours, the
s0Jution was connected by platina wire with the negative pole,
and -by filaments of cotton with distilled water which com-
municated by, platina, wire. with the positive pole.