It is entirely
due to chemical action (882.), and is proportionate in its intensity to the intensity of
the affinities concerned in its production (908.); and in its quantity to the quantity of
matter which has been chemically active during its evolution (869.). 'This definite pro-
duction is again one of the strongest proofs that the electricity is of chemical origin.

917. As volta-electro-generation is a case of mere chemical action, 80 volta-electro-
decomposition is 8imply a case of the preponderance of one set of chemical affinities
more powerful in their nature, oyer another set which are less powerful ; and if the
instance of two opposing sets of such forces (891.) be considered, and their mutual re-
lation and dependence borne in mind, there appears no necessity for using, in respect
to such cases, any other term than chemical affinity, (though that of electricity may
be very convenient,) or supposing any new agent to be concerned in producing the
results; for we may consider that the powers at the two places of action are in direct
communion and balanced against each other through the medium of the metals (891.),
fig. 4, in a manner analogous to that in which mechanical forces are balanced against
each other by the intervention of the lever (1031.).

918. All the facts show us that that power commonly called chemical affinity, can
be communicated to a distance through the metals and certain forms of carbon ; that
the electric current is only another form of the forces of chemical affinity ; that its
power is in proportion to the chemical affinities producing it ; that when it is deficient
in force it may be helped by calling in chemical aid, the want in the former being
made up by an equiyalent of the latter ; that, in other words, the forces termed che-
mical affinity and electricity are one and the same. SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY IN THE VOLTAIC APPARATUS. 435

919. When the circumstances connected with the production of electricity in the
ordinary voltaic circuit are examined and compared, it appears that the source of that
agent, always meaning the electricity which circulates and completes the current in
the yoltaic apparatus, and gives that apparatus power and character (947. 996.), exists
in the chemical action which takes place directly between the metal and the body with
which it combines, and not at all in the subsequent action of the substance $0 pro-
duced with the acid present*.