And fince it hath hitherto |
been the cuſtome to ſpeak with that laxneſs of expreſſion ; aſ«
ſigning the times of New-moon, Full-moon,and Quadratures, |
with the Moons comming to South, for, what is neer thoſe”
times: I did not think my ſelf 2 in my conjeQural Hy.
potheſis (while it is yet bur a Cand:aate) to ſpeak more nicely. If the Hypotheſis for the maine of it be found Rational ; the:
Niceties of it are to be adjuſted, in time, from particular Ob="
ſervation, x

Having thus given you ſome Anſwers to the QbjeQions you.
fignifie to haye been made by ſeveral perſons to my Hypotheſis,
and thatin the ſame order your Paper preſents them to me: I
ſhall next give you ſome account of the two Books, which you
adviſed me ro conſult; ſo far as ſeems neceſſary to this buſts:
neſs : Which,upon your intimation,[ have ſince peruſed,though'
before I had nor. And firſt, as to that of T/aac Voſſius, De matu Marium © Ven-.
forum; Though I do not concur yith him in his Hypotheſizs That?
all the Great mottens of the Seas,&c. ſhould ariſe onely trom ſo:
{mall a warming of the water as to raiſe it (where moſt of all) net a:
Foot in perpendicular, (as in his 12th Chaprter;) Or that there:
is no other connexion between the Moons motion, and the
Tydes ener 1/ period, than a caſual Symchroniſm (which ſeems.
to be the doctrine of his 16th and 18th Chapters) Beſide mas»!
ny other thirgz in his Philoſophy, which I cannot allow : Yer T
am well enough plcaſed with what is Hiſtorical init, of the!
matter of Fact: Flpecially if I may be ſecure,that he is therein”
accurate and candil, not wreſting the Phenomens to his own'
pale, Bur 1 find nothing in it, which doth induce me to vary

rom my Hypotheſis, For, granting his Hiſtoricals to be.all
true ; the account of the conſtant Current of the Sea Welt:
ward, and of the conſtant Eaſtern Blaſts, &c. within the Tre.
picker, is much more plauſibly , and (I ſuppoſe) truly rendered:
by Ga!t/eslong fince, fromthe Earths Diurnal motion: (which,
neare the Bquator, deſcribing a greater Circle, than nearer the.
; Poles,


| (287)

Poler, makes the: Current to be there 'more conſpicuous and
ſwift , and, conſequently, the Eddy, or recurrent motion,near:
er the Poles; where this is, more remils :) than can eaſily be ren-
dered by fo ſmall a Tumor, as he fuppoſeth,. Not to adde ; that
| his account of the Progreflive morion, which he fanſicth to fol.
low upon this Tumetaction, and by Acceleration to grow to
fo great a height near the Shoar ( as in Chap. 13. and 14. ) 1
a Notion, which ſeems to me too extravagant to be ſalyed by a-
ny laws of Sraztckr. And that of the Moons motion onely Syn-
chronizing with the Tydes, caſually, without any Phyſical con-
nexion; 1 can very hardly affent tro.