In these experiments the distances of discharge varied directly
with the respective quantities accumulated*.

34, Comparing these results with those before arrived at (17. 20.), it may be seen,
that whilst the distances of discharge between two points increase in the simple ratio
of the quantity, the attractive forces increase as its 8quare.

35. This is not only applicable to discharges produced by different quantities dis-
posed on the same conductor, but it is also true in disposing the same quantity on
many conduetors precisely similar, 80 as to double, treble, &c., the extent of similar
snrface : we bave in all cases the distance of discharge, in a simple ratio of the quan-
tity contained on a unit of similar surface.

36. The distance, therefore, through which an electrical accumulation can discharge
in air of a given density, is an accurate measure of the comparative quantity contained

* I do not advert to these experiments as containing any very new or unexpected results in electricity, but
in explanation of the application of particular methods of research, in demonstrating more completely than has
been hitherto done, a class of facts essentially involved in the subject of these inquiries,


INFLUENCE OF AN INTERPOSED CIRCUIT ON THE QUANTITY TRANSMITTED. 227

in an unit of space, or (supposing the electrical particles to repel each other) of the ten-
sion ; now the attractive force evinced by the electrometer, and which we have termed
intensity, is directly as the $quare of the quantity contained in a unit of space, an
cannot be taken as a measure of the tension, except under this condition.

37. On reviewing these phenomena, as connected with the discharge of electricity
between conductors, we may trace an interesting and consistent relation hetween them. If we call the force exerted between two points c ©, fig. 14, at the instant of a dis-
charge, unity, and we now suppose the balls to be placed with the same accumulation at,
twice the previous distance, then, according to the general law of electrical attraction,
the force will be reduced to one fourth, since it varies in an inverse ratio of the squares
of the respective distances (67.), at three times the distance it would be one ninth, and
80 on: hence the discharge could not occur at these distances with the same quantity.