That fixed air was ſome how
or other produced in phlogiſtic proceſſes, either by / Fparationk
or compoſition, 1 took for granted from the numerous experi-»
ments of Dr, PRIESTLEY ; and among theſe I ſeleQed, as lea
liable to objeftion, the Calcination of OO. the decompoſi
5 CR"



1 Mr, Kinwan's Remarks, &ec. 155
i tion of nitrous by mixture with reſpirable air, the phlogiſtica-
b tion of reſpirable air by the eleQric ſpark, and, / laſtly, that ef-
© fefted by amalgamation. In cach of theſe inſtances Mr, CaveN-

DtsH.is- of opinion, that the diminution of reſpirable air, is
— owing to the produ&tion of water, which, according to, him, 5
© formed |by the union of the phlogiſton, diſengaged in-thoſepro-
© ceſſes; with the.dephlogiſticated part of common» air; and that
S fixed air is never: produced in phlogiftic proceſſes, , except ſome
S animal, or vegetable ſubſtance is concerned in the operation,
S from whoſe decompoſition it; may ariſe, To: which of theſe
cauſes the diminution, of refpirable air is to be attributed, I ſhall
| * now endeayour to elucidate, he

: » Of the Calcination" of Metals.

i attributed the diminution ,of air by the calcination of
7 metals, to the conyerſion of the dephlogifticated part of com-

2 mon air into fixed air, by reaſon of its union with the phlo-
2 iſton of the metal, for this p ain reaſon, becauſe I find it, ac-
Z knowledged on all hands, that the calces of all the baſe metals
5 yield fixed air, when ſufficiently heated. Mr, Cayendiſh allows
S the fact in-general, but aſcribes the fixed air found in them to
SZ their long expoſure to the atmoſphere, in which he fays fixed
Z air pre-exiſts ;. but that it exiſts in common air in any quantity
5 worth, attending to, or. is extrafted from it in any degree, I
A take the liberty of denying, grounded on the following Hats. Firſt, I have frequently agitated 18 cubic inches of common air

in 2 of lime-water, and 2, of common. air in 18, of lime-water,
but could never perceive the flighteſt milkineſs ; and yet the
 thouſandth part of a cubic inch of fixed air would thus be made
* ſenſible; for if a cubic inch of it be diflolved in 3 ounces o

; a 25" water,



156 Mr. Kin'wan's Remarks on |
water, a few drops of that water let into lime-water will pros
duce a cloud.