F. R.S.,,

: +10

R, Mar, 21, AVING G been mqualied by a —
0 member of the ſociety, lately eftabliſhed/,
for the recovery of perſons apparently, drowned, to:com=yl}
mit my thoughts on that ſubje&to-paper;. I readily com»
plied with his requeſt, hoping; that, although'T have had
no opportunities of making aCtual experiments, upon.
drowned perſons, it might be in my power to throw: ſome:
lights on a ſubject {o cloſely connected with the-inquiries:
which, for many years, have. been my favourite bufineſ:
and amuſement. , I therefore collected together my-obs
ſervations and experiments relative tothe loſs and recos
very of the actions of life, and ſhewed them to a Socie

and curious, and unanimouſly recommended their being
ſubmitted to the judgeinent of this learned Body. ,,, The
practice is new, and has furniſhed as yet few important# I
and clear facts. If we judge of the queſtion by our, ge-t1
neral knowledge of the animal cxconomy, Iam afraidg.
it is ſo imperfeCly underſtood, that our reaſoning fronyitl
alone could not be relied on: nevertheleſs, on a ſubject ie 40 |
intereſting to humanity, we muſt not be idle; we mu bio!
throw out-our obſeryations, and reaſon as well as we can!
' 17 7 , fon


for recovering "Parſons afpavent#" drowned. gt"
- from the few dara we have, in hopes that the ſubject,
\ thus put fairly"into' the hands of the publick, may in
- time, by their united endeavours, become perfectly un-
| derſtood. © D971
> 1 ſhall conſider an animal, apparently drowned, as not
lead; but that only afuſpenſion of the a&tions of life has
Aken place. This, probably, is the caſe in the begin-
'Jing'of all violent deaths, except thoſe cauſed by light-
Aing or electricity, by which abſolute death may 'be pro-
Juced inſtantaneouſly, / :
> How a blow on the ſtomach cauſes death T have not
peri-ableto aſcertain.” In all thoſe caſes which” have
Allen under/my obſervation, the concomitant cireum-
ances have been ſuch as alſo attend death cauſed by
tricity; vis. a total and- inſtantaneous privation of
2 and motion without convulſions, and conſequently
thout any ſucceedingrigor of muſtles, totally differing”
ptheſe circumſtances from death, where the' perſon is'
auck ſenſeleſs by any injury done to the brain.