This p
ceſs invariably takes place with regard to men.
fame thing, Lam, convinced, happens, to,other anin
If an ecl, for inſtance, is expoſed to a, degree of col
ſufficiently intenſe-to benumb, him till the remainder
life in him is ſcarcely perceptible, keep hin fill in a &
of about 40% and this ſmall quantity of life will reno
for a conſiderable time without diminution or incre ez
but, if he js put into about 60%, the animal will at 4inlt
ſhew ſtrong ſigns of returning = but will die in.a {6
minutes, ., , Nor 1s, this circumſtance peculiar to, {til

 ©(4) Ttis upon thele prittiples that cold air is fotnd of fo muth'ſ vio
\people;who are much reduced by difcaſe,/as/ the confluent ſmall-poxz {6
viz, diminiſhing heat in; proportion. to the diminution of life.,


E ar recovering Perſons affnrenth drowned, 4ut
ninution' of life by cold. The fathe Phenomena take
e in animals who have been nf much reduced by
ger. Tf a lizard, or ſnake, When it goes to its autumnal
ng place, is not ſufficiently fat, the living powers
become, before the ſeaſon permits it to come out, very
£01 aſiderably weakened, and perhaps ſo much as not tb
Wil again pr ung If thoſe ov ron I in ſuch a a ſtate, are

Fad, which are © poſlefſed of a larger ſhare of life, they

; * Ilſimmediately ſhew ſigns of increaſed life, but quickly
Ank under the experiment and die; while others, re-
: tc ed to the ſame degree of weakneſs, as far as appear-
}ices can diſcover, will live for many weeks, if kept in a

Fegree of cold proportioned to the quantity of life =

i y ſoon.” | The reaſon of this 1 did not ther coriceive;
Flit 1am now ſatisfied, that it was owing, as in the'othier
neces, to the degree of heat being increaſed too fud-
for the proportion of life remaining in the animal.
>From, theſe facts. [it appears,' that warmth. cauſes a
- greater exertion of'the living powers than cold; and that
an animal, in a weakly'ftate, may be obliged by it to exert
|| Kkka a quantity


42% 00 Mr. munTERs Propoſals |
a quantity of the action of life ſufficient to deftroythis
very powers themſelves. ( The ſame effects probably
take place even in perfect health. It appears, from ex+
periments made in a hot room, which were readto this
Society, that a perſon in health, expoſed to-a great degree”
of heat, found the ations of life accelerated ſo much as
to'produce faintnels and debility. laſh
If bed-doaths are put over the perſon ſo as ſcarce
to touch him, ſteam of volatile alkali; or of warmbals'
fims and effential' oils, may* be” thrown in, ſo ago.
come in contact with many parts of his body.” 'It will
certainly prove advantageous if the fame fteams can'be_
conveyed into the Komach, as that ſeat of univerſal ſyni-
pathy will by theſe means be rouſed,” This may be done.
by a hollow %ougie and a ſyringe; but this operation!
ſhould be performed with all poſſible nimbleneſs, bes
-- cauſe the inſtrument, by continuing in the mouth
produce ficknels, an effect I ſhould chuſe to avoid.” Som
of the ſtimulating ſubſtances, which are of a warm'n
ture, and have an immediate effect, may be thrown into
the Romach in a fluid ftatez 0/2. ſpirits of hartſhorny
peppermint water, juice of horſe-raddiſh; as many others
alſo, which produce a more laſting /i7:uus, as balſams'
"and turpentines, ſuch as are found toquicken the pulſe of
a man in health; but the quantity muſt be ſmall, as they”
have a tendency to produce ſickneſs. The ſame ftea Y
and. fubſtances ſhould allo be, thrown up by, the ONUS.

(e) It is upon this principle that parts mortify in conſequence of inane
119348

The

mation,


for recovering Perſons apparently drowned. 423

\The-proceſs-recommended under the firſt head of treat-
*mentdhould {till be;continued; while that recommended
-under the ſecond-is pat-in practice, as the laſt is only an
© auxiliary-to the firſt, The firſt, in many caſes, may ſuc-
-ceed alone; but the ſecond without the firſt muſt, Ithink,
always fail in_caſes where the powers of life are conſi-
der ably weakened.