Motion poſſibly may be of ſervice,
Sit may at leaſt be tried; but, as it has leſs effect than any
Zother of the uſually. preſcribed //2nzu4, it ſhould be, the
£laſt part of the proceſs. 1 would recommend the ſame
Scare to the operator.in.regulating the proportion of every
*Zone of theſe means as I did betore in the application of
t; poſſibly eyery one of them may have the ſame pro-
=perty.of deſtroying/intirely, the teeble action which they
Shave excited, if adminiſtered in too, great a-quantity ;
: wſtead, therefore, of increafing and. haſtening the ope-
rations on the firſt ſigns of returning life being obſerved,

[- heir increaſe afterwards may. be pea awry as ka a9
Spoſlible, by the quantity of powers as they ariſe. It
Sthe heart begins to move, I would leflen my application
Eof air to the lungs, and with great attention  obſerye
zwhen the muſcles of reſpiration began to aCt, that, when

. 4 (/) How far eleAricity may be of ſervice, I know not; but it may, however,
©be tried, when every other method has failed, 'T have not mentioned injefting
imulating ſubſtances dire&ly into the veins, thongh it might-be' ſuppoſed a
Troper expedient; becauſe, in looking over my experiments on that ſubje&, Þ

L all


42.4 My." toxtiR's Propoſals”

all means forbid bleeding, which, I think, weakens the
animal . principle,” and leſſens life itfelf, conſequently _
leflens both the powers and' diſpoſitions to a&tion, ''  T
would avoid introducing any thing into the ſtomach,
which ordinarily produces narfea or yomiting, as that
alſo will have a ſimilar effect, © I wouldavoid likewiſe
throwing any thing in by the a7zs, which might tend to!
an evacuation that way, as every ſuch evacuation alſo
tends-to lefſen the animal powers;' of courſe, I have
avoided ſpeaking of the fumes of tobacco, which alw ays.
produce: fickneſs or purging, aj wig as they are ap
Phot

[/ Whoever is appointed by the fociety for the Ow
of recovering drowned people, ſhould have att afliſtant,
well acquainted with the methods /intended'to be' made.
uſe off; that, while the one is going on with the fra”
moſt-ſimple methods, the other may be preparing other) |
means, ſo that/mo'time may be loſt between the operas.
tions; and the more fo, as the firſt will, in all caſes, ft
the ſecond, and both together may ws be attended* "_
ſucceſs, though each ſeparately might have failed”

A proper apparatus alſo is as efſentially neceflary to.
the inſtitution, a deſcription of which I here annex:
Firſt, a pair of bellows, ſo contrived with two ſeparate”:
cavities, that by opening them, when applied to the
noſtrils or mouth of a patient, one cavity will be filled
with the common air, and the other with air ſucked out
from the lungs, and by ſhutting them again, the come -
mon air will be thrown into the Tungs, and that ſacked

uw V4 7 out


for recovering Perſons, apparently drowned. 14:25

out of the lungs dicharged into the.room; | The-pipe
- of theſe ſhould be flexible, in length a foot or a foot and
A half, and at leaſt threc-eighths of an inch in width; by
this the artificial breathing may be continued, while the
other operations, the. application of; the ini tothe
"ſtomach excepted, are going on, which could' not/ con-
_Yenicntly be, done, if the. muzzle of the bellows were in-
Stroduced into, the noſe. . The end next the noſe ſhould
be double, ,and applied to; both noſtrils. -  Secondly;-a
={yringe, with a hollow hogie, or flexible catheter, of ſuf-
ficient-length to. go.into. the ſtomach, and convey any
imulating matter into it, without affe&ting the lungs;
EThirdly, a pair of {mall bellows, ſuch; as are-commonly
Zulcd in throwing fumes of tobacco-up-the anus.
| " 1 ſhall conclude this Paper by propoſing, that at; who:
Are employed in this practice, be particularly required to
Keep AccRale Journals of. the means uſed, and the de-

iſhed with facts a6 -pragi to pon us-to tf connhas

1)

Qns, ON Which a certain PRaphicR may hereafter be efta—

pro ) 9fl

—_— XXV. An