I am induced to believe that pressure to a certain degree uni-
formly kept up, is necessary for the performance of the healthy
functions of the cerebrum ; and any increase or diminution
of this pressure puts a stop to them. It is asserted, that in
addition to this pressure, the pulsatory motion of the blood in
the arteries of the cerebrum is also necessary ; but the late
Joun HuNTER, whose accuracy in a point of this kind is not to
be doubted, retained his senses although the heart had appa-
rently ceased to act.

®* After the operation for the trepan, before the skull at that part is ossified, pres-
$ure upon the brain with the finger produces insensibility.

+ This I have seen in cases of spina bifida, by pressing upon the tumour in the
back, and forcing the water up into the ventricles.

t The removal of a coagulum of blood, half an inch thick, between the skull and
dura mater, made the pulse nearly stop, but as s0on as he recoyered from this faint
$tate, the person was perfectly well.

$ Vide Life of John Hunter prefixed to his work on the Blood, Inflammation, and
Gun-$shot Wounds. 'The account is transcribed from his own notes,


on the Functions of the Brain, 471

Although insensibility is the common effect of undue pres-
Sure.upon the cerebrum, it appears from what will be stated,
that it is not a necessary consequence of undue pressure upon
the cerebellum. The facts which have been stated appear to point out the
use of the water in the ventricles of the brain, and they ac-
count for the great variety which is met with in the form
and extent of the posterior cornua of the lateral ventricles,
their size varying according to the quantity of water which
is necess8ary to keep up the pressure required. The size of the ventricles would appear to be very imma-
terial, since even when they are increased 80 as to contain
above six ale pints, the functions of the brain are all carried
on, and the growth of the body proceeds ; but after the skull
is completely ossified, an increase of two or three ounces pro-
duces insensibility. That the ventricles should admit of being increased to s0
great an extent, without any of the senses or faculties of the
brain being destroyed, is in itself a curious fact, and of s0
much importance with respect to the physiology of the brain,
that I shall detail the two following cases, which illustrate one
another,

In the one, the accumulation of water proceeded, as it will
appear, as far as it could go without materially impairing the
organ; it then stopt, and the boy grew up, with all his fa-
culties: in the other the water continued to increase, the sub-
stance of the cerebrum was absorbed, and the faculties of the
brain were destroyed.