Many Jaan Artount AM

way We iot hence te? that as the Romanſh'has! .
never been uſed in any regular compoſition in writing
till the ſixteenth century, nor affected by any foreign i 1
viion or intimate connexion; it is not Hkely to have res
ceived any material change before the period of its being
written? And we have the authority of the books ſince
printed to prove, that it is at preſent the identical lat
guage that was ſpoken two hundred years ago. Theſe
arguments will receive additional weight from the proo
Iſhall hereafter give of the great affinity there is between
the language as it is now ſpoken, and the Romance tha
was uſed in France nine centuries ago. 2

"When we further confider the facts Thave above briefl
related, the wonder will ceaſe, that in a cluſter of mouns
tains, ſituated in the center of Europe, a diſtin&t' TANSUAR :
(ot a dialeCtor jargon of thoſe ſpoken by the contiguo |
nations, as hath been generally imagined) ſhould "have
maintained itſelf through a ſeries of ages, in ſpite of th
many revolutions which frequently changed the whole!
faceof the adjacent countries. And indeed, ſo obftinately
tenacious are theſe people of their independency, laws
Eniſtoms, and conſequently of their very language, that
as hath been already obſerved, their form of government
eſpecially i in judicial matters, ſtill bears evident marks 0

e ancient Tuſcan conſtitution; and that, although the
"be frequently expoſed to inconveniences from their ſtub
bortineſs in this reſpeR, they have not yet been Previi :
pon to adopt the Gregorian reformation of the calenda ,


the Romanſh Language. 143

P As to the nature of this Janguage, it may now, be ad-
vanced, with ſome degree of confidence, that the Cia-
lo er owes its origin to a mixture of the Tuſcan and of
the dialect of the Celtic ſpoken by the Lepontii;, and
that the introduction of the vulgar Roman affected it in
ome, degree, but particularly gave riſe to the Ladin; the
rocabulary of which, as any one may, be convinced
by _ inſpecting a, few lines of the bible, hath. a, great
Sffinity with that of the Latin tongue. But theſe afſer-
Zions reſt merely upon hiſtorical evidence; for as/to the
Gialover, all that it may have retained of the Tuſcan, or
Roman, is ſo much disfigured by an uncouth pronuncia-
Eon and a vague orthography, that all etymological en-
Euiries.are thereby rendered intricate and unſatisfactory.
0 d as to the Ladin, although its derivation. be more

Ten found, after many tedious experiments, that © eyen
She. vocabulary, in-which the reſemblance is moſt eyi-
al ent, differs equally from the clafſical-purity of TULLY,
| + SAR, and SALLUST, as it does from the primitive Lap

| Bp of VARRO, TROETIVE, and COLUMELLA. 34
| ih | not from. this circuraſtance. infer, that, a, IS; the caſe
Ip. all vernacular tongues, the, yulgar, aledt of the Bo-
FE gh Jorg wjualin, FT & Li a
+ [#1 Cont: Mem, des Joferip, 40, bv.