Cold is produced by mixing various other chemical sub-
stances with ice : in the above table, such only are retained as
produce that effect in a remarkable degree. As the new nomenclature is now generally adopted, I have
used it in this paper.

* The materials may be cooled, previously to mixing, when required, by a frigo-
rific mixture taken from the table : for this purpose, either of the mixtures in Class I,
zre conyenient ; particularly the firs, consisting of muriate of soda and snow.


the Production of artificial Cold. 137

POSTSCRIPT. In the course of my former papers on the subject of cold,
I have had occasion to make, incidentally, some remarks on
the power of water, under certain circumstances, in resisting an
extraordinary degree of cold without freezing ; likewise on
the particular kind of agitation which induces water, cooled
below its freezing point, to crystallize or become ice.* As
tthese are subjects which have likewise engaged the attention
of others, I shall take the liberty of barely mentioning a fact,
having relation to those points, which has lately occurred to me. It%is a remarkable circumstance respecting artificial freez-
ing, that the ice thus procured in the usual way, (viz. by im-
mersing the water to be frozen, in a convenient vessel, in
a frigorific mixture,) will always be more or less opake, never
transparent: this I had constantly remarked, without much
attending to it ; however, having in the course of last summer
been induced to try the effect of an ice-speculum for pro-
ducing heat, it became necessary that the ice, which in this
instance was substituted for glass, should be perfectly trans-
parent. After varying the process in every possible way I could
think of, by immersing the water to be frozen, without effect, I
at last sueceeded completely, by forming a coating of ice, of
sufficient thickness, on the outside of a vessel containing the
frigorific mixture ; the bottom of this vessel, which was made
concave for this particular purpose, being immersed for a suffi-
cient length of time in a shallow pan of water.

* Phil, Trans, for 1788, page 401.