I now proceed to the detail of the experiments, and the
conclusions I draw from them. In those which I shall first
describe, the centre of the plate was always in the magnetic
meridian ; its plane was perpendicular to the meridian, and a
tangent to the sphere, whose centre was the centre of the


260 Mr. CuRisT1E on the magnetism of

needle; and the plate revolved, as-in!all-other cases, in
its own- plane : they: area repetition! of. those! by. which I
first discovered several of the-facts; Irhave, mentioned, but
made for the: purpose of - determining” more - precisely; the
deviation: caused-- bythe rotation.'4 In;making; these; the-in-
strument was adjusted- 80 that. the index at'g,/fig: 1,-pointed
to ©, that at Kito-90*%, and those-at- o,-o' to Zeroy s0 that
SN. was: horizontal-and pointed east and west,'as'represented
in fig:'s. In the: following table; the/numbers lin the-first column
indicate the points of the plate which coincided with the plane
of the meridian nearest/ the:/s0outh; or upper/pole-of the
sphere, when the several- directions of the north end of the
needle in the: same- lines with them 'were- observed; . the
latitudes and/longitudes are: those- of. the 'centre | of the: plate
as referred.to the centre of- the needle, the longitudes/being
* meagured from east through north; the letters at the: tops of
the columns indicate the-direction in which the-edge of the
plate, -nearest- the south pole of the sphere, moved; the

- mean deviation of the needle, when the: plate revolved in this
direction, is- placed in' the line |below the other deviations ;
the direction-in which the deviation due to rotation took place,
in-the following line ;-and- the whole- deviation, arising from
making the-plate revolve-in-opposite directions, below this :
the deviations observed always refer to:the north end of the
needle. The distance of' the centre of the plate from that of
the needle was 9.75 inches; the diameter of the plate, 17/88
inches; thickness; -.0g9 inch; weight, 119 oz. : $0 that its
specific gravity appeared to | be 7826; This plate I call
No.