In one case of this disease, in which-the operation of dividing
the nerve was performed, with a view to remove'the complaint,
union by the first intention did not take place ; and, during
the time the wound was open, the inflamed state of the cut end
of the nerve, made the” patient liable'to/several attacks of the
disease, ' 8imilar to those he experienced before the ' operation ;

* Mead's Pracepta Medica, Quatto, p. 434+


on the Irritability of Nerves. 21

but there was no recurrence of them after the wound was com-
pletely healed. This is a very important fact; as it proves: that inflammation
on the cut end of a nerve, while in an irritable state, is capable
of producing exactly the same symptoms as the original disease. This effect of inflammation upon the end of a nerve, explains
the startings of the limb which occur too frequently after ampu-

bf tation.

&1 These most commonly are met. with when the- limb is taken
E off above the knee, and the nerves and-vessels have; been pre-
S viously inflamed higher than the part | at which they were
E divided; and where the nerve is confined by the thickened
SI state of the surrounding parts.

5 The same fact also explains the cause of locked jaw, when
= it is produced by a wound or bruise upon a nerve, in a con-
= stitution either rendered irritable by climate, or naturally $0;
'Z also where the nerve itself becomes diseased, in consequence of
2 the accident. EZ The following case of locked jaw, from an injury to the
Z thumb, bears $0 great a resemblance to the case related in the
s beginning of this paper, as to show that the diseases must be
bt nearly allied.

3 A lady of a very irritable habit was overturned in her car-
Z riage, and hurt her thumb, which swelled very much; and the
E skin over the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger, about the size

of a shilling, sloughed off, No symptoms came on for four-
teen days after the accident, when, upon bending her fingers,
violent spasms took place in the thumb, which proceeded up to
the neck and lower jaw; these were exceedingly painful, and
the jaw was 80 much shut as hardly to admit a tea-spoon. In


22 Mr.