a. represents the cheliferous
member of the perfect Lobster, as well as of its larva ; but this organ is not provided
in the perfect state with any lateral appendage. And Mr. Tromeson himself does
not attempt to prove the connexion of the lateral appendage which he figures with
the cheliferous limb of the perfect Lobster, since he describes this lateral appendage
as the future flagrum of the Lobster, that is, the lateral division of the exterior pair
of foot-jaws ; consequently, unless Mr. TromesoN is prepared to prove that the lateral
appendage of one organ in the immature state becomes the lateral appendage of a
totally distinct organ in the perfect state of the same animal, it must follow that this
gentleman has erred in his dissections of the immature Lobster, and mistaken the
lateral appendage of the outer foot-jaw for a Schizopodous appendage of the Cheli-
ferons limb. Fourthly, As respects the explanation or © excuse” which this principle of meta-
morphosis enables us to give for the annual migrations of the land Crabs of the
West Indies to the ocean to deposit their spawn, the young produced from which
being natatory animals—Zoes, in fact,—are incapable of living in the same element
as their parents in their early stages, I can very well agree with Mr. Taomeson that,
if any exception existed amongst the Crustacea, in which the young should not un-
dergo any change from aquatie to terrestrial habits, accompanied of course by a

MDCCCXXXV. 2T


320 MR. WESTWOOD ON THE SUPPOSED EXISTENCE

corresponding modification of structure, it would be amongst the land Crabs ; but I
cannot agree with this gentleman that scarcely a stronger confirmation than this
very circumstance could be adduced of the universality of metamorphosis, in as much
as it appears to me that Mr. Tnomesox has arrived somewhat too 8uddenly at the
conclusion that the young must consequently be Zoes, or even that, although inca-
pable of living out of the water, they are necessarily furnished with natatory mem-
bers. Examine the sea Crab, and no material difference in the structure of its loco-
motive organs is to be observed from that of the land Crab whence a different kind
of motion can he inferred ; hence there can be no actual necessity for the existence
of natatory apparatus in the young land Crab, which must be just as able to support
itself in the water without any such as an ordinary sea Crab.