Zoes observcs jusquici ne
s0ient pas des animaux adultes, et alors il se pourrait bien que par les progrds de
Tage ils deviennent assez semblables aux Megalops ; question que nous nous pro-
posons de traiter plus au long dans une autre occasion*,”

The talented editor of the Zoological Journal has also, in his review of Mr. Trome-
8oNn's work, expressed his doubts as to the universality of the fact of metamorphosis
taking place in the Crustacea; and in the eighteenth number of that work he has
stated the confirmation which his doubts had received by the publication of Dr.
Raruxe's work, adding, that if there existed no optical delusion or other cause of
error in the isolated observations which Mr. Tromeson has given us, the difference
of organization between a Macrourous and a Brachyurous Decapod is much greater
than either analogy or anatomy would have led him to suspect.

And lastly, Mr. Kinsy has communicated to me his conviction that the researches
of Mr. Tzomysox are to be regarded with distrust, the grounds for which opinion
will appear in his forthcoming Bridgewater Treatise. I now proceed to notice, as concisely as possible, the direct observations made by
various authors upon different Crustaceous animals in the young state. And in the foremost place are to be mentioned the elaborate researches of RatHkE
upon the deyelopment of the ova of the common Cray-fish, a work which for minute
and delicate investigation is rivalled only by Lyoxxert's celebrated memoir upon the
larva of Cossus, Some idea may be entertained of the extent of these inquiries,
from the fact that five large folio plates are completely filled with details of the
structure, internal and external, of the ova in various states of development, and of
the newly hatched animal. And $0 beautifully clear are the representations of these
objects, and 80 completely is the development of the embryo to be traced through
all its stages, that unless we believe the whole to be the work of a fanciful imagina-
tion, it is impossible to arrive at any other conclusion than that the Cray-fish does not,
undergo any change which can in the least degree merit the name of metamorphosis. A full abstract of this valuable memoir is inserted in the eighteenth number of the
Zoological Journal, and in the Annales des Sciences Naturelles for August 1831,

*