Dr. Wares, long civil-

2c2


196 LIEUT.-COLONEL SYKES ON THE ATMOSPHERIC TIDES

OE in the city of papers. (exclusive of losses from 8pasmodic cholera,)
ound the casualties in that city to be only 1-82 per cent., or 1 in 55:1 .
including cholera, 2:48 per cent., or 1 in = —_ Dr. YE
a regiment of natives 1000 strong, lost only 0:85 parts of an integer per cent., or
about 5 men in every 600 per annum during the years the regiment was in Dukhun ! In conclusion, it may be desirable to give an abstract of the facts established, and
the principal matters noticed in the preceding paper, viz. the entire removal of Houm-
BoLDT's doubts, founded on the authority of HorsBuRGn, of the suspension of the at-
mospheric tides during the monsoon in Western India: the existence of four atmo-
spheric tides in the twenty-four hours, two diurnal and two nocturnal, each consist-
ing of a maximum and a minimum tide : the occurrence of these tides within the same
limit hours as in America and Europe : the greatest mean diurnal oscillations taking
place in the coldest months, and the smallest tides in the damp months, of the mon-
s00n in Dukhun; whilst at Madras, the smallest oscillations are in the hottest
months, and in Europe it is supposed the smallest oscillations are in the coldest
months : the regular diurnal and nocturnal occurrence of the tides without a single
case of intervention, whatever the thermometric or hygrometric indications might,
be, or whatever the state of the weather, storms and hurricanes eyen only modifying
and not interrupting them : the anomalons fact of the mean diurnal oscillations be-
ing greater at Poona at 1823 feet, than at the level of the sea in a lower latitude at
Madras : the fact of the diurnal tides at a higher elevation than Poona being less,
whilst the nocturnal tides were greater than at Poona: the seasons apparently not
affecting the limit hours of the tides : the maximum mean pressure of the atmosphere
being greatest in December or January, then gradually diminishing until July or Au-
gust, and snbsequently increasing to the coldest months : the very trifling diurnal and
annual oscillations compared with those of extra-tropical climates : the annual range
of the thermometer less in Dukhun than in Europe, but the dizynal range much
greater : the maximum mean temperature in April or May, gradually declining until
December or January : the observed mean temperature of places on the continent of
India much higher than the calculated mean temperature agreeably to Meyer's for-
mula : annual mean dewing-point higher at 9* 30” than at sunrise or4 P.M. : highest
dewing-points in the monsoon, and lowest in the cold months : considerable differ-
ence in the dewing-points within very short distances : remarkable contrast between
the dewing-points in Bombay and Dukhun : dew frequently local and occurring under
anomalous circumstances : rain in Dukhun only 28 per cent. of the fall in Bombay,
ninety or a hundred miles to the westward : winds principally from the westerly and
easterly points, rarely from the northerly or southerly points, and the absence of
wind frequent : electricity very abundant under certain circumstances :» fogs rare, and
always dissipated by 9—10 A.M. : very remarkable circular and also white rainbows :
Solar radiation very great: and finally, I must not omit to notice the singular opa-
city of the atmosphere in the hot weather, and the occurrence of the mirage.


AND METEOROLOGY OF DUKHUN, 197

'TaBrE I.

Oxcillations of the Barometer in Dukhun, East Indies, between the parallels of lati-
tude 17* 25' and 19* 27' N., and longitude 73* 30' and 75* 53' E., at a mean eleva-
tion of 1800 feet above the sea; the whole reduced to 32* Fanr., with correction
for the brass scale.