Swifts, like ſand-martins, carry on the bu-
{ineſs of nidification quite in the dark, in crannies of
towers and ſteeples, and upon-the; tops of the walls of
churches -under- the roof; and therefore cannot be ſo
narrowly watched as thoſe ſpecies that build more openly ;
; but from what I could ever obſerve, they begin neſting
about the middle, of May, and I have remarked, from
eggs taken, that they have fat hard by the ninth of June,
In general they haunthigh buildings, churches, and ſtee-
ples, and build only in ſuch; yet in this village ſome
Pairs frequent the loweſt and meaneſt cottages, and edu-
Cate. their young under thoſe thatched roofs. We re-
metaber but one inſtance where they bred out of build-
2 ings; 3 and that is in the ſides of a deep chalk-pit near the
town, « of Odihan in this county *, where we have ſeen
Many pairs entering the crevices and ſkimming and
3 {que aking round the precipices. © AsT have regarded
thele : amuſive birds with ' great attention, if I ſhould ad-
i yance ſomething new and peculiar with reſpect to them,
and different from all other birds, I might perhaps be
F credited; eſpecially as my affertion is the reſult of many
I Fears exact obſervation. The fact that Tr would advance
- bs, that ſwifts tread © or copulate on the wing: and I could
; . Vie Hampſhire,
Ooz2 wiſh


f{ 266 ]
wiſh any nice vbſerver, thavis/ſtartledat this-fuppoſition,
to uſe his' own' eyes, and think he will:ſoon be cons
vinced, Tn another claſs of animals, widelcer, the injec,
rithing is'fo common” as to ſee"the different. ſpecies of
many genera it conjunction asthey My. 1 The! tfwiftris
almoſt continually on the wing5-and/asvit never ſertles
on the ground, on trees, or roofs, would ſeldom findop-
portunity for amorous rites, was it notenabledto:indulge
them inthe air. Tf any perſon would watchytheſe birds
on 4 fine moriiing in May;'as they are failingrroundratw
great height from the ground, he'would ſee every mow
and then one drop'on the back of another; 'and/both'of
them fink down together for many fathoms, with/aJoud
piercing ſhriek.” ThisTrake'to be thejunttare whemthe
buſineſs of 'generation'is' carrying'on;” © As the ſwift
eats, drinks, collects materials for its neſt, and, as'it ſoems,
propagates on the wing; it appears'to' live more inthe
air than any other bird; and to'perform-all funttions
there, fave thoſe offleeping ard/incubation/'!