And it is a-matter of fad, that, after being taken
\ out and kept in the air, all ambergriſe grows not only harder
* and whiter, but alſo loſes by degrees its ſmell, and aſſumes

© Fuch an agreeable one, as that in. general has which is found
il Hh 2 ſwimming


236 - Dr. senwEDTAWER's* Account R
fivimming vpon the "ſea ;| therefore the goodneſs of amber-! 2
griſe ' ſeems rather*to" depend on-its age. | By being! accu- ©
mulated after a certain fength of time -in the inteſtinal! ca-!
nal, it feems even then to become'of a whiter colour, and'leſs
ponderous, and acquire its agreeable” ſmell. © The only reaſons ©
why ambergrife found floating on the ſea generally poſleſles the?,
above-mentioned qualities in a ſuperior degree, is becauſe It 15.
commonly older, and has been longer expoſed to the air. It'is *
more frequently found in males than females ; the pieces-found *
in females are in general ſmaller, and thoſe found in.:males
feems conſtantly to be larger and'of a better quality,' and-there-
fore the high price in proportion to the ſize is not merely imas |
ginary for the rarity-ſake,” but in ſome reſpedt well founded,
becauſe ſuch large pieces appeat to'be of # greater age, -and poſs |
{eſs the above-mentioned qualities in general | in a higher'degree
of perfeQion than ſmaller pieces. l i
© Having diſcovered, as 1 juſt now mentioned,” beaks of the |
euttle fiſh in all the pieces of ambergriſe I had an opportunity
of examining, it now remained to be” aſcertained, how thoſe
beaks became fo conſtantly mixed with ambergriſe ?-In-proſes
cuting this enquiry, I had the fatisfaQton to learn from -the ſame |
perfons who gave me the information above-mentioned, that-the |
Sepia Oftopodia, or' cuttle fiſh, is the conſtant'and natural food
of the ſpermaceti-whale, or Phyſeter Macrocephalus. - Of: this |
they are ſo well perſuaded, that whenever they diſcover any xe»
cent relics of it ſwimming on the ſea, they:conclude that'a whale |
of this kind'i Is, or has been, 1 in that part. Another circumſtance
which corroborates” this fact is, that the {permaccti-whale, on _
being hooked ig vomits ops tome remains of the'Sepia *.,
. From ©
* It will not bei improper here to retires to what anenorinous. kize, this ſpecies >
of Sepia' grows in the ocean,, One of tlic /gentlemen who was ſo kind as to com= |
( municate

1

7.


; oof Ambergriſe. x 237.

': From what 1 have ſaid, we may. eaſily account for the many
beaks, or.picces of beaks, of the Sepia found i in all ambergrife,

-\The- beak df- the! Sepia is a black horny ſubſtance, and there-
fore paſles undigeſted through the ſtomach into the inteſtinal,
canal, where it-!s- mixed with the feces; after which it is either
evacuated with them,! or if theſe latter be preternaturally res
tained, forms concretions with them, which render the animal
Bck and torpid, and: produce an obſtipation, which ends either
an-abſcels.of. the abdomen, as has. been frequently obſerved,
or becomes fatal,to the animal; whence in, both the caſes,
K the burſting: of. its belly; that hardened ſubſtance, known,
wader the name;of ambergriſe, is found ſwimming on the lea,
5 thrown upon the coaſt.