So that
I have ſeen it ſhew alteration, when not the leaſt could
H h 2 be


[1034] b
be collected from the ſweating of Stones, cracking of
Wainſcote, -&c. So that indeed I repute it to be the
niceſt Hygrometer, that has ever yet been uſed, and1Iam
ſure is as cheap and plain as any. : 2

One of the grand defects of moſt (indeed I think of all,) ©
Hygrometers hitherto invented is, that they. 'grow-weak
with age, and do not ſo nicely obey the alterations of the
Air, when long kept, as when firſt made; Planks and
Boards grow more ſeaſoned, and 1 beleive Oat-Beards
will perilh with time; but whether our preſent Inven-
tion be ſubject to the {ame fault, I leave to-time to deter-
mine; in the mean while, give me leave to; propoſe a
reaſon which induces me to conjecture probably it will
not have this defect; for our Cord performs its motion
as it iz a plyable ſoft ſcrew, and that not only in its grol-
ſer-partor ftrands, but even inits ſmalleſt threads; as long
azever this contexture ſcrew-wiſe dos laſt (and this cer-
tainly muſt laſt whilſt 'tis a Rope,) the motion that re-
ſults therefrom muſt neceſſarily laſt, for the particles of
moiſture will inſinuate - themſelves, and- twiſt up the”
{crew. But this I offer only as a.conjeCture, for love to
conclude nothing in natural Philoſophy , trill matter of
fact and experiment confirm it. ;

There remains one thing to be obſerved of this Hygreſ-
cope (or Weatherclock ; as an eaſier name to ſatisfy La-
dys, that enquire what it is, as it hangs up in a Room,)
that which. Lhave deſcribed I have in-my Cloſet, and T
obſerve that the alterations of the zr that have happen-
ed in this rime have given it more then one turns now

"this being inconvenient, and the Duplication of the
turn hard tobe regiſtred, as Mr, Hook propoſes in his
Micrography pag. 150. concerning the beard of a wild-
Oat; Ihave thought of a way for remedying this, for it
being in our power to increaſe the Diameter of our gra-
duated Circle as large as we pleaſe, what need have we
of more then. one turn from the greateſt degree of moiſ-

cure


£1035]

#1115 ro the greateſt degree of Drought? Now ſuppoſe!
&:,the Hygroſcope. repreſented. in the, Figure to have two
©orplear Revolutions (this is;to be found by obſervation
t:roughour 'a whole year,) I ſay then. the way of rectify-
1ng tas thus.
i, Ing. -2 the Index D. has two: Compleat turns;
the poinr 4. as being fixt has no turn or motion, there-
fore the middle point G. has but one turn, and conſe-
quently it I hang it up at the point G. or no longer then
G 1. halfthe former length, the Index D. will have but
one turn, What is here {aid of two turns and the mid-

le point G. may be accommodated to any other number
of turns and parts, and points in the Rope,
= Laſtly,'$i7, we may in this experiment perceive ſome
thing that may help us in the conſideration of the
Krengthand motion of the Muſcles of Animals; for take
# Cord able-to ſuftain' an Hundred pound weight, by
the weak Fume or Steam of warm water this weight ſhall
=o lifred up for if this Steam turn the weight (as moſt
gertainly it. will do, it the Rope be of any moderate -
Zength,) the weight is as certainly lifted up thereby as by
A ſcrew, as is evident. to anyone that conſiders it.” If
Therefore ſuch mighty performances can be produced by

he application of ſuch-mean agents, as we all know and
are converſant with, what ſhall we think is too great

or thoſe parts which God has contrived and framed in the
Bodys of Animals ?