The experiments with the proof plane just mentioned (31.), (32.), together with
the phenomena of repulsion 80 frequently alluded to in this paper (14.), necessarily
lead us to investigate more rigorously the nature of its indications, in order to dis-
cover, if possible, the conditions under which it may fail to become charged, either
with the same quantity as exists in the points touched, or otherwise in the ratio of
the quantities. The first notions which present themselves from our experience of ordinary elec-
trical actions, would lead us to conclude that an electrified conductor of large di-
mensions could always charge a small body to saturation from any point of it,
provided the electrical 8tate of the touching body was such as would enable it to
become 80 charged : this is indeed quite evident from the fact that a compound ele-
ment $1 chas that already mentioned (8, 3.), and represented fig. 8, becomes charged
equally at whatever point of a long electrified cylinder, c, fig. 18, it is applied, whether

* Traits de Physique, tom, ii. p. 271. + Physique Experimentale, tom. i, Seconde Partie, p, 579. EXPERIMENTAL EXAMINATION OF THE INDICATIONS OF THE PROOF PLANE. 445

at the centre c or at the extremity a; as 2180 from the fact already noticed (36.), that
whatever part of a charged conductor be connected with the fixed disc of the balance,
or with any other species of electrometer, the instrument is equally affected. The
proof plane, therefore, if it really exhibits the ratios of the quantities of electri-
city disposed in different points of a charged body, must depend materially on the
resistance to an equal participation in the charge, arising from its little inductive
susceptibility ; it is hence very desirable to investigate experimentally the various
effects which increased thickness, or extension of any kind, position, intensity of
charge, and the like, may have on its indications. An experimental inquiry of this kind
is, however, extremely difficult : we are, for example, open to all the sources of fallacy
above described (15.), and illustrated by Table TV.