When, however, the two columns c and « again vary
together, or nearly s0, the ratio of the quantities, as given by each of the discs, is
about the same as before, until at last, where the induction upon the tangent plate
is the most perfect, the ratio becomes one of equality, or nearly 80. The same re-
marks apply in comparing the horizontal columns ec and x or c and cf.

43. In comparing Tables X. and XI. there is one important fact to be observed ;
viz. that we do not get the exact ratio of the respective quantities of electricity on the
charged cylinder until we arrive at the most perfect inductions, as in the action of
the plates p and g : here the reactions are as 2: 1, or nearly 80, whereas in comparing
the similar plates and parts touched with the less powerful plates d e £ the discre-
pancies are considerable, evidently showing that we have not really arrived at the
true ratio of the quantities by means of these plates.

44. It is worthy of further inquiry, whether the proof plane be really identical with
an element of the charged surface to which it is applied, or whether it be not in the
condition of a neutral insulated body placed within an extremely small distance of a
charged body, and subject to the same laws as subsist between two such bodies when
placed under similar conditions, at more sensible distances, and at which electricity
may be communicated. A rigorous examination of this question would probably
elucidate many phenomena of electrical action at present involved in doubt : in the
mean time it may not be unimportant to review such facts connected with this point
as are already known.

45, It has been found, for example, that the attractive force between charged and
insulated neutral bodies is less than when the latter are uninsulated ; that perfect in-
sulators are not sensibly attracted by electrified substances ; and that, in every case of
electrical attraction, the force is (as already obseryed,) proportionate to the previous
induction of which the bodies are susceptible.