This is the common reduction of a cubic equation, to one
of the sixth degree but in form a quadratic, obtained, by clear-
ing of its quadratic surd, the pure cubic formed by either of the
two sets of binomials before described; and this is the only
reduction of it yet discovered. Perhaps the method called Car-
DAN's rule, is the-shortest mode of effecting this reduction; but I
am not aware, that the real principle upon which it is founded
has been any where fully analysed and explained, except in
the foregoing investigation of it. The ordinary expositions of it
certainly disclose nothing of the principle, and are even in
many respects faulty; for they treat it as the effect of a suppo-
position or lucky conjecture, when, in fact, there is no supposition
or conjecture made; a regular clue, furnished by certain demon-
strable peculiarities in some functions of this order of quantities,
being pursued, till such a relationship amongst the roots may
be inferred, as may be converted into equality at some known
period. They also fail to account for the most striking part
of the result; the irreducibility happening uniformly in cases
where it has been supposed least to be expected, 7. e. when
the roots are real; which they refer to a particular limitation


Resolution of Algebraic Equations. 299

in one of the steps taken, when it is, in truth, of much deeper
origin than any particular method, being the necessary conse-
quence of the constitution of the: cube power.

27. The result of these observations upon cubic equations
shews, that directly they are not resolvable, 7. e. they cannot,
like quadratics, be always brought to a mere extraction of their
correspondent root: that, however, by means of the peculiari-
ties inseparable from the' number of three quantitzes, a relation
is discoverable, which inevitably gives equal roots to the equa-
tion of the cubes of a particular function of them ; but that,
that function involves sometimes a quadratic surd which was
not in the roots themselves, but arose from the form necessary
to be given them; that the equal relation not taking place in
any case, till the cube of that function, and, in some cases, not
being rational, till the square' of that cube, the equation is not
lowered in degree, by the operation, but rather increased.

28.