F.never could hear of any ſuch Sand-pits, -nor- that this
rifying Vertue was ſtronger in any ſuch places; there
AS. 4 greater quantity of theſe ftones found in the adja-
cent ground, and when ground is newly broke, ordi-
narily-turned up in plowing. Io. Whether the Earth, or Sand about this Lough be
zndued with this Qualitie > That this Virtue is certainly, if
not only, in the ground or ſoil I judge for theſe reaſons,

; that there are many ſtones turned up daily eſpecially at
their breaking up new ground ; which we cannot in any
-probabilitic rhink were brought thither; they are often
Poe OTE If V v foung


[1112]

found at' two miles diſtance from the Lough, ſeldons;
further, in.great numbers, and very deep in the ground;
now for what uſe and reaſon they ſhould be broughr
thither I can't imagine - but becauſe there may lie
exceptions againſt this reaſon F ſhall produce another,
which I believe will plainly prove this affertion, ir being
matter of fact. 'The Gentleman on whoſe credit F re-
ceived this information, had occafion one day to ſurvey
a part of hisown land, and ata ſmall diſtance from the
Lough, he ſaw a ſtump of #'rree juſt digged out of the
ground, which by handling of it he found petrified ; his
Servant that digged it-ip, ſtanding by kim, told him he
had juſt rooted it out of the ground : he aſſured. me the-
roots and all were ſtone, and altogether like thoſe ſtones
that are ordinarily found and go by the name of Lough-
Neagh-ſftones, This' certainly proves. the ſeil' to have |
this petritying Vertue, which was never yet proved of the
water. This Gentleman was of opinion theſe were La- |
Piges ſut genertis,' till this obſervation convinced him: and
I-believe the wood, which I before mentioned: that was
found by the Fiſhermen pezrifed, ows its. petrification to
the ſoil and not to the water; Bat that theſe tones were _
once wood is Ithink very certain, for they ſhew the plain ;
veſtizia of wood, they likewiſe burn, cleave ;. filings of -
this tone thrown.in the fire emitt a fragrant ſmell : they _
cut Kindly: with a. knife, though nor 1o eafily;” as other +
wood : but had they none of theſe properties, the ins
ſtance now alledged, Ithink;is as convincing as Demons. |
ration, | SOT... Eliftoria +