BREWSTER 0 the Polarisation of Light.

polarised by every successive plate will force its way through all
the remaining plates, and will reach the eye at E, without having
lost a single ray by reflection, the light reflected at each surface
being taken from the unpolarised portion of the transmitted light. Hence it follows, that the. light which penetrates through a
parcel of plates is not a maximum when it falls with a perpen-
dicular incidence; that the principle employed by BovgGuer for
computing the intensity of the, light transmitted by several
plates is completely erroneous; and that the method adopted
by the same distinguished philosopher for measuring the ab-
sorption of light is affected with a similar error,*

The celebrated discovery made by MaLvus, of the polarisa-
tion of light by oblique reflection, is perhaps the most impor-
tant that optics has received since the discovery of the principle
of the achromatic telescope ; but though it developed a new
set of phenomena, analogous to those produced by doubly
refracting crystals, yet as the polarisation of one of the images,
at least, formed by these crystals, was effected by refraction,
and not by reflection, it did not furnish us with any information
respecting the manner in which they polarised the transmitted
light. The discovery, however, of the polarisation of light by
oblique refraction, forms the connecting link between these
two classes of facts, and holds out the prospect of obtaining a
direct explanation of the leading phenomena of double re-
fraction,

* In estimating the quantity of light absorbed, Boucuss (Traite f'Optique 5ur
la gradation de la Lumzere, p. 156—160,) compared the quantity transmitted by
four pieces ot glass with the quantity transmitted by one piece having the same thick-
ness with all the four, The pencil of light was incident at an angle of 15%, and hence

the 177th part of the light transmitted by each plate was polarised, and therefore
not altogether subject to the general law of reflection. Dr. BREWSTER: 0. the Polarisation of Light. 229

If two separate,sets of polarising! plates are; placed before
two luminous objects, in Such. a manner that their planes of
refraction are perpendicular. to each! other, and that the rays
are incident upon both parcels at the polarising angle belong-
ing to each, the observer will, perceive two images which have
all the properties of those formed by doubly refracting crys-
tals; and in so far as the polarisation of the two pencils is
concerned, the two, parcels of, plates form an artiſicia! polari-
sing crystal. © For if these two images; are viewed through a
prism of Iceland spar, they will be converted into four images,
and by turning round either the spar, or, the plates, two. of
the: images; will yanish and reappear in every, quarter, of a
revolution.