BREWSTER 07 the Afﬀections of Light

complement of the angle OCr, at which light is polarised by
reflection at C.*

V. On the elliptical coloured rings produced by depolarising
Crystals. In a former work, to which I have already had occasion to
refer, I have given some account of the colours which accom-
pany the depolarisation of light, and I have particularly noticed
the remarkable fact, that when, a beam. of white depolarised
light is, transmitted through a doubly. refracting crystal, the.
red rays go to the formation of one. image, while the bluish
green rays go to the formation of the other image, In re-
peating and extending these experiments, I have been led into
a new field of inquiry which has already afforded a series of
instructive results deduced from a class of phenomena un=
questionably the most brilliant within. the whole range of
optics. The plate of topaz which was used in these experiments, is

* Since the preceding section was written, I have performed a very extensive series
of experiments on the depolarisation. of light, and have thus been led to a satisfactory
generalisation of the phenomena. In this theory the phenomena are referred to the
general principle, of polarisation : such bodies as have neutral and depolarising axes
are suppoxed to form two images polarised, in an opposite manner, and either pro-
duced by the same or by different refractive powers; while those which depolarise
light in every direction, like gum Arabic, caoutchouc, &c. are composed of films or
layers, each of which is.a doubly, polarising crystal, the neutral and the depolarising
axes of one film not being coincident with the neutral and depolarising axes of the
rest, In a separate memoir, which I have drawn up for the consideration of the Royal
Society, 1 have given a full account of this theory, of the experiments on which it is
founded, and of the new views to which it leads respecting- the formation and struc-
ture of organized matter.


transmitted through crystallized Bodies. 208

about 423; of an inch thick, and has two natural faces which
are parallel and highly polished.