From these
two: sources, I was enabled to procure every information that
was required, to explain the structure of the elephant's teeth,
and-to point out the general principle upon which all teeth are
formed, that have the/enamel intermixed with the substance of
the teeth; a subject; as/far as I am acquainted, not hitherto
investigated. The success that has attended this inquiry may be ascribed
to my opportunities'of consulting Mr. HuxTer's collection :—
this tribute I pay with much satisfaction, and mention it here;
in proof of the value of that collection, which is not confined to
the discoveries and investigations of Mr. HuNTER, but extends

MDCCXCIX, LI


238 Mr. Home's Observations on the Structure of

- much further; since the collection contains materials relating
to many subjects at present but little understood, and which, if
they are hereafter rendered access}ble to those engaged in Such
researches, will lead to the advancement of knowledge, and to
many useful discoyeries, As Mr. CoRsE's labours in India have enabled him to give s0
correct and satisfactory an account of the mode of growth of
the elephant's teeth, I was desirous- that the facts which I had
discovered respecting their structure, should be introduced into
his Paper, to render the account more complete :—this offer,
Mr. Corst however declined, not choosing to bring forward
any thing that was not wholly his own; I have therefore added
them in this place, as a proper supplement to Mr. Corst's
Paper. To make my observations on the structure of the complex
tooth of the elephant intelligible to this learned Society, it ap-
pears necessary to mention, generally, the mode in which the
more simple teeth of the human species, and of carnivorous ani-
mals, are formed : this knowledge will render the account of
such additional parts as are met with in those of the elephant,
more easily understood. The teeth of carnivorous animals are formed from a vascular
pulp, of the same shape with the future tooth, upon the exter-
nal surface of which the substance of the tooth begins to: grow,
and increases till it is completely formed.