Ivory-0n a new Method of deducing

have; been expected from the. labours. of. 80 many eminent
men., .In most of the solutions that have been-proposed -we
. find. certain. coefficients! which are not only. extremely. small
when, reduced into numbers, but they. likewise suffer great
alterations in their relative magnitudes. when. small changes,
within the limits of the probable errors, are made in the quan-
tities furnished by observation. In such..circumstances, the
results obtained are often wide of the truth, and in no case:can
entire dependence be had on their accuracy. The fact is thatthe
s0lutions here spoken of, are uncertain and-useless in practice
for the very same reason as the one already mentioned, which
supposes the orbit to be rectilineal, and proposes to deduce-it
from four observations. Nor is this to be wondered at. [We
have already shewn that it is not any inaccuracy in the, sup-
positions made by Sir Isaac Newton, which renders: his. first
method insufficient and of no. use in practical astronomy.; nor
is this owing to any defectiveness in the geometrical construc-
tion; it arises from his having overlooked that connection
between the motion of the earth and the motion of the comet;
which-makes the data approach s0 near the indeterminate case
of the-problem that the conclusion becomes quite uncertain;
We fall upon the indeterminate case when we suppose both
the earth and the comet to move in straight lines with uniform
velocities; and the very same. hypothesis will -be found” to
make the small coefficients alluded to, accurately evanescent.*
The inconvenience is inherent in the quantities obtained /by

* The small coefficients here mentioned, are exactly eyanescent when all the three
observed places of a'comet are in one great circle of the heavens : but it'is easy to
prove that if two celestial bodies be supposed to move uniformly in straight lines, one
of them will be scen from the other to describe constantly the same great.circle.


a first Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 12g

observation, and it cannot be entirely obviated merely by
pursuing new methods of solution, nor by pushing calculation
to greater degrees of exactness. The problem cannot be
justly and usefully solved, unless such coefficients are ex-
cluded, and the result is obtained by means of quantities on
which the errors of observation have no more influence than
they ought to have.