The glaſs being thus rent is no longer
© able to be what is called charged; but after the crouded:
elec-


1048 Dj. 1INGENHOUSZ's. Experiments

electrical fluid -of a prime conductor has in the ſame
manner rent the plate of air-(which obſtructed to a cer-
tain degree its'free paſſage' between the-prime conductor
and'the' neighbouring body) by. giving it a ſpark, the
ſame-ſpark-may be-repeated at pleaſure, becauſe the
opening formed by the ſpark through the plate of ait is;
immediately {lvat up again according to the nature of all
fluids. |

If an inſulated condutting body be fituated' in the'
-manner deſcribed, fo as to poſſels at its different extremi-
ties a contrary elecricity, it may impart'to any other body
brought in contact with it, or within its ſtriking diſtance,

a ſhare of that electricity which it has acquired at its far-
thermoſt extremity. The former body, ſo touched, has ef-- *
fectually loſt that part of electrical fluid which was ina
certain manner crouded upon that extremity z and there-
fore being taken out of the ſphere of action of the ex- *
cited body, as, for /inftance, a-prime conduRtor, after :
having thus loſt a part-of the electric fluid crouded upon; q
its extremity, is found to poſſeſs. a negative electricity if j
the excited body had a poſitive, anda poſitive if the-ex-+ *
cited body had a negative one:

"Thus we ſee how far we muſtbelieve what is commonly
affirmed as a fact, that a body, plunged 'in the atmoſphere
of an electrified body, acquires a ſtate of electricity con--
trary-to that of the eledrified body. If the body plunged

in


| 0n\the Flecirophorus. 1039
in this atmoſphere be of a ſmall extent, it will be found
 fotoall appearance, becauſe the two, extremities of a
| ſmall: body cannot be ſeparately examined; whereas a
- body of a certain extent exhibits ina. very perceptible

manner the two diſtinct electricities. The reaſon of this
A wonderful phenomenon is'to-be underſtood by the prin= -
: ciples adopted, and may: without much attention be/un=.
= = derſtood, if we ſuppoſe: the excited body to be in a poſi.