Now in, all theſe
| an we-ſee,, that the centers are Rill diſtin. enough _to-mea-
their diſtances with ſufficient truth 3. or if. any. little error
Thould be introduced by the magnitude of the central point, it
will be more-than: ſufficiently balanced-by the largeneſs of. the
ſale, -In this manner,; with a power of 3168; I have obtained
a ſcale of no/lefs than ten inches ſix tenths for the diſtance of
the centers of the: two ſtars. of -@ Geminorum ; and as we
ft 7 Know. Mr, HERSCHEL 08 the '

know theſe centers to be but a few ſeconds diſtant, it is plain

how great an advantage we gain by ſuch an enlarged ſcale. Theſe experiments have but very lately pointed out to me a

method of making a new micrometer, upon a conſtrution |

entirely different from any that are now in uſe, which I have
been ſucceſsful enough to put in prattice, and by which I have
already begun to determine the diſtance of the centers of ſome
of the moſt remarkable double ſtars to a very great degree of
accuracy *,

The powers that may be uſed upon various double ſtars are
different, according to their relative magnitudes : e Bootis, for
inſtance, will not bear the ſame power as « Geminorum, nor
would it be difficult to aflign a reaſon for it ; but as I here ſhall
merely confine myſelf to facts, it will be ſufficient in general
to mention, that two ſtars, which are equal, or nearly fo,
will bear a very high power: with @ Geminorum I have gone
as far as 3168 ; but with the former only to 2010. The diffi-
culty of uſing high powers is exceedingly great ; for the field
of view takes in lefs than the diameter of the hair or wire in
the finder, and the effect of the earth's diurnal motion is-{0
great, that” it requires a great deal "of pradtice to find the
objec, and manage the inſtrument. It appears to me very
probable, that the diurnal -motion of the earth will be the
greateſt obſtacle to our progreſs in magnifying, "except we'can
introduce a proper mechaniſm to carry our teleſcopes in a con-
trary motion.