VII: 'p, 369, 176,
fore


= 1
fore deſtribed?"Tt48 not'therefore likely, that the whole
of mount Veſuvius'ſhowld have been made Vat feyeral
times; by the” earth”and cinders flung up out of the
mouth, that ies in the midſt of them, the'athes falling
down the fides' 6f it; like the fand in an hour-=glaſs, as
Mri/app150N® particularly obſerves, and as moſt peo-
.Ple-are naturally enough apt to think. And however
Sconſiderably the bulk of this monntain may have been
Z increaſed; by the loads of /avg thrown out at the ſeveral
Zernptions; yetno great addition ſeems to have'acceded
Sto its height, if the obſervation juſt mentioned he trne;
5 which, though Thave never had it in my power toverify,
yet I readily believe; not only on account of the reſpeAa-
= ble authorities above quoted, but alſo from its conſiſtency
Sith other fimilarandindifputable phenomena, of which
3the vulcanic branch of Montebello before deſcribed af-
=fords, if I miſtake not, no inconſiderable proof, Nor does
Sit indeed appear agreeable to reaſon, that mountains of
Sgreat Height; where/voleanos exitt, ſhould be entirely vo-
=mited up'in this manner; ſuch volcanos ſeeming to re-
Z = quire aolid-and permanent channel for the violence andl
7 frequency of the effects they produce. It ſeems there-
fore, that/a-way or channel only has been opened, by an
A original'eflort-or exploſion, through mount Veſuvius,
which/has-/fince been deeply buried by the materials ſuc-
ceſſively thrown up, from'its bowels, in the {everat erup-
tions.” And'T am inclined to think the ſame-of mount
#tna, from its ſuperior height, though I am uncertain

(b) Eravels, p. 184.
whether


M8
whether BORBLÞY,/0r0any- other-of its hiſforiographers,
takes notice-of any! fact; by which this conjecture is
proved:: The ſame ſeems alſo probable, for ſimilar rea-
{ons,-of mount Hecla, 'the Pic of Tenerif, &c. And'if
this be true of ſingle or iſolated voleanos,: like Veſuvius
and.Etna, that'carry ſuch ſtrong externil marks of hav=
ing been excluſively produced by the accumulated /ava
of eruptions, nuach more 1s it likely to be fo of others,
that are not only conſiderably higher, but form parts of
a-continued Chain, like the volcanos of the Andes, as I
imagine, 1s it not, moreover, highly improbable, that
Chimboroſo, which is one of thoſe volcanos, and the
higheſt mountains in the known globe, meaſuring, ac=
_cording'to the French academicians, 4220' toiſes, which
exceed four Italian miles, allowing 764. toiſes to'a mile;
is it not, I ſay, highly improbable, that ſuch a-mountain
thould excluſively- owe its origin and formation to the
accumulated materials of eruptions only? May not the
ſame be ſaid of the mountains Antiſana, Kotopacſi, Pi-
chincha, and the other volcanos of the Andes, of which
ſome are little inferior in height to Chimboroſo, and
conſtitute in general the higheſt parts of that vaſt chain?