But-I was furpriſed,.
en examining the granite maſſes of Monte Roffo, to:find.
in them. pieces. of common porous brown Java, which
did not appear tobe caſually lodged'there,;and of extra--
. neous origin(like the rounded pebbles in pudding; ftane,
zad other aqueous rata) but manifeſtly-ſeemed ta-form”
integral parts of the maſs itſelf, and to have concreted:
with it at. the ame-time. I obſerved a fimilar fort. of:po-
rous, /ava, but of a black. colour, in the granite of the:
caſtle hill-at Moncelefe, near Eſte, at the-fouth eaft:fleirt-
of the Euganean hills; and doubt not but: the fameris
common- to-others.. This. fact, added. ta-many. others,
which Lihall nat infiit upon at preſent, ſeeras ftrongly:

mY


(23373 ]
to confirm ar opinion; which T have long/entertained of
the igneous origin of /granites i-generalzzſomefurther
proofs'of which I-ſhall hereafter confider.// A dingy red
ochrous/earth covers partly the'furface:af 'Monte:Roffo,,
from whence probably: proceeds:the name-/given'to the
hillz-70/9, in Italian, fignifying 7ed.Much iron fandralſo
abounds here, as'it commonly does about'other vulcanic
S and granite mountains or tracts im-general./ Among the
2 figured concretions of Monte: Roflo, 1'obſerved a {mall
= open perpendicular bank, at the eaft.end/ of the: hill,
5 which preſented a group of a very peculiar ftruchure./ It
Zis-formed by an aggregate of angular bodies, laterally
Z ranged together, like balſantine-cohumns, but in a hori-
= zontal direQion, with their tops in front, and prominent,
Zas they are repreſented in the figure. Theſe promi-
Znencies are of a globoſe form, and made rough bya num-
Sher of ſmall. cryſtallizations, -of a parallelipepid figure,
Ethat are concreted-in the maſs, which is of a yellowiſh
Ecotour, and rather friable ſort of vulcanic ſubſtance, in-
=fomuch that I could net ſeparate, or iſolate the bodies ſo
=far as-preciſely todeterminetheirparticularform, though
EN correſpondent continuation of the external angles-ap-
Spearswithin, and they ſeem to contract 2 little, pyra-
Amidically,, like: the folated body. figured ,' and. which
ſexerasto:be ſomewhat of the-fame Aibdibates a much.
harder ſubſtance. Fhis'is alſo from a part of MonteRoifo,
Near the priſmatic coharans. - Though, as I before ſaid,
there arevery few.of the Enganean' hills that intirely
”- (m} Fig. 2: 134 (8) *Digit 35: 8
conſiſt


T 38 ]
conſiſt of common bafaltine, or other /ava, like thoſe of
Auvergne, Velay, and the Vicentine and Veroneſe terri-
tories; yet ſore” there are, and very curious, which I

{hull briefly deſcribe.