Wherefore having ſet :

it aſide, to be fure that it might be throaghly cold, he *

after ſome hours viſited it. again, and found it move

as before. And having caſt ſtore of ſeeds upon it, to. ?

ſee it the, Liquor would move them alſo, the Bitumi- *

nous part of it conneQted them into a kind of thick

Scum, that covered moſt of the Szperficzes ; but yet left

ſome Inrervalls, in which the Liquor appeared, and :

diſcovered that jt continued. its motions. 'Two days:
after, the Engineer diſcourfing with me of his Fire work,
about which he had adviſed. with me before; told me,
among other things, of this odd accident. And when

L. had asked him, if the motion continued fill, and'

had been anſwered affirmatively, tho' it was then a

dark. night and ill weather, my Difidence or my Cu-\

riofity made me engage him to ſend for the Pot as.
it was ; partly to be ſure of the matter of Fact, and
partly to try, if the knowledge I had of the Ingredi-/

ents,



| £1214: RO ,
ents; 'which he kid before rold the,” world afford any
Hhitit, ot'the cauſe 'of fo odd an'Fffett; alike to which
in Kind, tho' not in degree, I had many years before
deviſed, and fſucceb6telly 'prattiſed, the way of pro-
The Vefſet 'being come; tho*® the haſty tranſporta-
tion of it\iremd to have ſafficieatly diſturbed' ir, there
did appear manifeſt ſigns offſach a motion, . as the En-
#rneer had” aſcribed to it; and therefore he being wil-
wg _to-leave.it with me, I caus'd 'it'ro be fer aſide in
4 Laboratoty, where ſome Furnaces kept the Air con-
Mantly warm, arid dill there” and. elſewhere, 'at diſtant
#imes, look heedfully upon it, now and then diſplac-
Ing, or quite taking off, ſome of the thick Scum, that
=00 much covered the ſurtace of it; atid by rhis means _
= had the opportunity to take notice of ſeveral Pheno- *
Imena, whereof theſe are the chiet.
= Lirft 1 abſerv'd, that the motion of this Liquor was
Snot only brisk, but. very various; ſo that having
Hooſen'd fome ſmall portions of the Scum from the
sreft, one of them would "be carryed towards the Right
Zhand for inſtance, 'and ' another towards the left, at
Sthe ſame time. —-2./ Where the Liquor firſt came out
Efrom "under the Scum, it ſeem'd to move the moſt
z briskly, flowing almoſt like .a ſtream, whoſe motion
=npwards had been check'd, and as it were reverberat-
Zed, by that incumbent obſtacle, — 3. Several motions
Zin; this Liquor were the more eaſy to be obſerv'd;
& becauſe tho' it were dark,, yet it was notuniform, con-

fiſting in part of Oyly and Bituminous Ingredients,
which tho" they ſeem'd to have but one common Sz-
perficier with the reft of the Liquor, yet by their co--
lonrs and power of vigorouſly refleRting the light, they
wereeaſtly enough diſtinguiſhable from the reſt. And I ot--
ren obſerved; that ſome of theſe unCtious portions of the
matter,emerging to the EY of theLiquor,rho' perhaps:
ye h z at


{1x90J

at firſt one; of them would. not; appear bigger,;than a
pins head ; yet in moving. forwards it would at the ſame
time diffuſe it ſelf circularly, and, make as it were a
great Halo, adornd with the colours of the Rain-bow,
and fo very vivid, as afforded a very pleaſant, and at
firſt ſurprizing, ſpectacle; - theſe Phantaſms often nimb-
ly ſucceeding one another, and laſting. cill-they loft
themſelves againſt or under the thick Scum. —4.