R, S. accompanying two Letters
from Mr. Simon. zo Dr, Macbride,
concerning the Reviviſcence of ſome Snails
preſerved many Years in Mr. Simon's
:Gabinet,

To Joyn WALSH, Eſq;

DEAR SIR, Dublin, 22 Jan; 1774«

Redde, Mays, Incloſe to you two letters, which I re-

1774> ceived from Mr. $TUCKEY | SIMON,
<oncerning that extraordinary fact in Natural Hi-
ſtory, which you ſeemed to regret had not been
ſufficiently authenticated to: be communicated, to,
the public, in the Philoſophical Trania&tions of
laſt year, —The Royal Society are undoubtedly in
the right to be extremely cautious of allowing
any thing, ſo very much out of the hitherto-ob-
ſerved courſe of nature, as this is, to. appear in
their publications, without the fulleſt evidence. In


F433 ]

In Mr. «1110N's letter of the 26th of Novem-
ber, you will pleaſe to obſerve, that he mentions
a particular thell, whoſe ſnail had come out re-
: peatedly four different times, inthe preſence of
t different people;;* each of whom have afſured me
that they ſaw it. - That gentleman having done
me the favour to dine with me, a day or two after
! the date of that letter, he brought the identical

ij, ſhell (as he declared), in order that we might try
a if the ſnail would again make its appearance.

b= 'The company 'were not diſappointed ; for, after
= the ſhell had lain about ten minutes in a glaſs of
bf water that had the cold barely taken off, the ſnail_
= began to appear; and .in five minutes more we
I perceived half the body fairly puſhed out from
5 the cavity of the ſhell, "We then removed it
= into a baſin, that the ſnail might have more ſcope
= than it had in the glaſs: and here, in a very ſhort
'S time, we ſaw it get above the ſurface of the wa-
'S ter, and crawl up towards the edge of the baſin.

< While it was thus moving about, with its horns

= ere&, a fly chanced to be hovering near, and, per-

75 ceiving the ſnail, darted down upon it. The little

= animal inſtantly withdrew itſelf within the ſhell,

3 but 'as quickly came forth again, when 'it found

— - the enemy. had gone off, We allowed it to wander

2 about the baſin for upwards -of an hour ; when

E we returned it into a wide-mouthed phial, wherein

5 Mr. $1MoN had lately been uſed to keep it.