I now immediately arrived at that
kind of general law I had been in search of; for I found
when things were thus arranged, that whatever might be
the direction of the axis of rotation, if the motion of the ball
were made towards the needle, the north end of the latter
was attracted ; and if from the needle, the north end 'was
repelled by the iron, the points immediately in the axis
(when of course the motion of the shell was parallel to the
needle) being neutral, or those at which the change of
direction took place ; in other words, if the motion of the
shell continue the same, and the compass be successively
placed all round the ball, in that semi-circle (from one axis
to the other) in which the motion is towards the needle, the
north end approaches the ball, and in the other semicircle it
recedes, or the south end approaches; the points of non
action being in the two extremities of the axis, and'those of
maximum effect in two opposite points at right angles to the
axis ; in which two latter the needle, when properly neutra-
tralized, points directly to the centre of the ball. This will be perhaps better understood by reference to
fig. 3, where S is the shell, ab its axis, and ns, 2s, &c. the


induced in tron bodies by rotation. 323

needle in its various positions: prior to the motion, and x &,
1's, &c: its direction as resulting from the motion ; the
rotation of the shell being from c towards d.. of course with
the rotation reversed, the effect will be reversed also. Now this effect you will, I think, find to be perfectly con-
sistent with the view you have taken of the subject, in your
letter of Jan. 13th, where you say in reference to your for-
mer query, and to the views I then entertained, * I should
rather have expected a diminution of the magnetic polarity,
commensurate to the rapidity of rotation and a change in the
direction of the magnetic axis of the globe, from parallelism
to that of the earth, to a position somewhere intermediate
between that and the axis of rotation, but approaching nearer
the latter as the velocity increased, &c.”

The fact is, that the needle in my experiments being under
no influence prior to the rotation from either the iron or the
earth, the direction which it takes up in consequence of the
motion, enables us to discover the precise direction of the
new forces thus iimpressed upon the shell, and it will be
seen immediately to indicate a polarization of the latter in the
direction c d; that is, in a direction perpendicular to the axis
of motion, and to the plane passing through that axis and the
actual poles of the ball. You will of course understand that I do not mean that
such a polarization actually takes place; I mean merely that
the cohesive power of the iron is such, as to resist in a cer-
tain degree the inductive powers of the earth, whereby the
magnetic forces are changed, as you have suggested, from
their original direction, parallel to the magnetic axis of
the. ball into a; position oblique 'to- it, which oblique forces

MDCCCXXV, Uu


324. Mr.