YELLOLY ON THE TENDENCY

rature, and Art, for Oct. —Deec. 1829#*; and the correctness of that gentleman's
obseryations, receives a strong and important confirmation by the instance
which I have brought forward ; though they might, at first view, be considered
as liable to some doubt, both from the cireumstance of the granules being
uncombined, and from its being necessary to depend, to a certain extent, on
the fidelity of the patient as to their source. Dr. VexaBLes has kindly allowed me the inspection of his specimens, which
bear some resemblance (though they are mach more minute, and are of an
amber tinge,) to those which I have mentioned as coming under my own view ;
and he has stated in a letter to me, that in one instance, after carefully
filtering and putting aside for a fortnight, a portion of the urine from which
some of the granules mentioned by him had been derived, he found the
inside of the glass studded, in two or three places, with minate erystals of
sllex, strongly resembling those which were thrown down by the urine. The
precise modes in which silex is capable of being held in solution, have not all
of them been distinetly ascertained; but this fact bears a considerable analogy
to the deposition of regular crystals of rock crystal, from solations of silex in
fluoric acid, or in alkalis, after such solutions have been put aside for a consi-
derable period. I have not much to add to the statistical obseryations which I made in my

* former communication. I may remark, however, that it appears, from infor-

mation lately obtained by Mr. CopLaxp HuTcnis0N, that the calculations rela-

tive to the tendency to calculous diseases in Scotland, in which I followed

Mr. Smrrz of Bristol, have been a good deal under-rated ; and that the ayerage

disposition of that part of the kingdom to such complaints, differs but little
from that of England in generalF.

There seems to be much of the same yariation with regard to the prevalence

of calculous diseases in Scotland, that there is in England ; some districts

being exceedingly liable to these complaints, while others are yery free from

* New Series, No. XII.