Notwithſtanding this care to ſeparate,, as far as
prejudice would allow, every other diſeaſe from
conſumptions, it is matter of aſtoniſhment to ob=
ſerve, that, between the ages of 10 and 50, more
people die of conſumptions, than of all other diſ-
cales: this is the period of life, when eyery faculty,

and



þ

[ 73]

and every enjoyment, ; both of body and mind, are. -
in their moſt vigorous perfection, It becomes

therefore an enquiry, of the moſt ſtriking conſe-

quence to ſociety, to diſcover the caule, in order

to, prevent the fatality, of a diſcaſe, which makes

ſuch dreadful havock among mankind. The

Scrophula has been ſuſpe&ted. as the moſt general

cauſe of conſumptions; but this diſeaſe is leſs

common in Cheſter than in moſt other places,

Would the limits of this paper admit of fuch a

diſcuſſion, very ſtrong evidence could be produced,

that the -moſt frequent and moſt fatal cauſe of
conſumptions, in this,town and neighbourhood, is

catching cold, which occaſions a cough, that. is

entirely neglected for many weeks or months, and

is never ſuppoſed to be dangerous, 'till it becomes

deſperate. ' :

'There are no marſhes ſo near this city,as to infe&t
the air : hence we have no, dyſenteries, and very
few intermitting or remitting fevers, unleſs a few
faint irregular paroxyſms may, be ſuppoſed to, re-
quire that denomination. This fact may. be brought
in evidence, to ſupport the obſervation,. that mar{by
effuvia are the cauſe of thoſe diſcaſes ;, an opinion.
lately controverted by a very ingenious writer. For, more than 3o years paſt, the miliary feyer
has been ſuppoſed endemic in this city and neigh+
bourhood ; but, very probable; eyidence- has been
produced, by the moſt judicious phyſicians, - that
this eruption is very rarely,. or ,never, critical and.
falutary, but that it is generally, or always, fabri-
cated: by. cloſe. warm rooms,,t00 many bed-cloaths,,
bot medicines and dict. _ If; this be | univerſally,

Vor, EXLIV. js true,


[ 74 ]

true, it is much to 'be wiſhed, that the miliary
fever may be entirely baniſhed from the cata-
logue of diſeaſes. | It muſt give ſingular pleaſure,
to every benevolent heart, and well-wiſher to this
place, to find only one fatal miliary fever in the
regiſter of this year. May not this circumſtance,
with great probability, be attributed to the method,
lately adopted, of treating feyers, by admitting freſh
air into fick chambers, and adminiſtering ſuch re-
gimen and remedies, as are cooling, and check
putrefaCtion?