Royer, who has taken a more extended view of the subject,
and has described with great accuracy, the appearances in
two or three distinct classes of mummies, does not mention
any of the facts in reference to them, such as I shall pre-
sently relate in connection with my own mummy. This omis-
sion induces me to believe that the French naturalists never
met with a perfect mummy, and that, therefore, the descrip-
tion of a mummy in every respect much better preserved
than any that has hitherto been noticed, must be a desirable
object to the antiquarian, the learned commentators on
ancient historians, and to men of science in general. Baron
Larrey's Memoirs are chiefly intended to determine the
question of the identity of the present race of Copts with
the aboriginal Egyptians, whose descent he traces from the
Abyssinians and Ethiopians by a comparative examination of
the crania of several mummies he had collected in the desert
of Saqquarah, and of those of the modern Copts found in a
cemetery near Alexandria, The mummies of Saqquarah,
however, are acknowledged to be very inferior to those of
Upper Egypt by all travellers; and cannot, therefore, be put
in competition with the latter, in an inquiry into the art
_ of embalming among the ancient Egyptians,


288 Dr. GRANVILLE's essay 01

Independently of the information thus collected from 'the
writingsof different authors, calculated to convince me that
chance had put me in possession of a better, and a differently
prepared mummy from any that had hitherto been recorded;
many curious facts corroborative of that conviction, and
capable of illustrating the anatomical history 'of mummies in
general, were communicated to me by the late Dr. Ban,
by Sir E: Home, Mr. Bropie, Mr. CLirt, and others. It
would appear from their statements, that the inquiry into the
condition of these singular preparations had, from time to
time, engaged their attention; and that if nothing very new
or very interesting was discovered by those eminent anato-
mists respecting them, the circumstance is to be attributed to
the cause already alluded to, namely, the imperfect state of the
mummies which fell under their inspection. Both the late
Dr. Bait and Mr. WiLson mentioned to me that they
were present at the opening of a mummy by Mr. HuxTts,
who found it to consist of a mere skeleton, with the skin over
it perfectly dry ; the whole presenting s0 confuseda mass that
no one particular part could be recognised.