The
a « ſpark therefore (of courſe the attendant ſnapping
E <© noiſe). was denied to- all our attempts to diſcover
Z < 1t, not only in day-light, but in complete, dark-
E « neſs. I obſerved to you, in my laſt, the fingu-
D « larity of the Torpedo being able, when inſulated,
'S © togifeto an jnfulated perſon a great number of
EZ « ſucceſſive ſhocks :. in this ſituation, I have taken
= « no leſs than fifty from him in the ſpace of a
; A «minute and an half All our experiments con-
þ2 « firmed, that his electricity was condenſed, in
= «the infant of its exploſion, ' by a ſudden energy
5 « of the animal; and as there was no gradual
= «accumulation, nor retention of jt, "a5 in the caſe

= « of charged glaſs, it is not. at all ſurprizing that
= « no ſigns of attraftion 'or repulſion were perceived

«in the pith balls.” Th ſhort, the effet of the T'ors
«« pedo appears to ariſe from a compreſſed elaſtic
« fluid, creftoring/3tfell tots equilibrium-in the ſme
* way;/and by thei {ame mediums, as the: elaſtic uid
4; compreſ{td-in charged. glaſs,” The ſkin of the
« animal, bad- conductor; as it is, :ſeemsto! be a
« better conductor, of his electricity, thag the
« thinelt plate Es "Notwithſtanding the
ae Fete of "the torpedtdal elefridty” "bas

*« able



( 466 ]

*« able, in the public exhibitions of my experiments

« at Ia Rochelle, to convey it through 4 circuit,
« formed from- one turface of the, animal to the
* other, by two long braſs wires, and four perſons,
« which number, at times, was (increaſed; eyeri to
« ejpht. The ſeveral perſons were made io com-
« municate with eachother, and the two outermoſt
« with the wires, by means of water, contained in
« halins, properly diſpoſed between thems for the
« purpoſe ; each. perlon dipping bis bands./in, the
e neareſt bafins, connectively with his ne:gbour on
«, either fide, =——

«© The effe& produced by the Torpedo, when
« jn air, appeared, '0n many repeated experiments,
« to be about four times as, ſtrong. as when, in
« water,”

A clear and ſvccin@ narrative of what paſſed at
one of the public exhibitions, alluded to, in, the laſt
ſetter, appearcd in the French Gazette, of the, zoth
October 772, As it came from, a very reſpectable
j ah not leſs ſo irom the, private charaQter, of
the gentleman, than from the public, offices be. held,
I muſt deſire leave of the Society to, avail mylelf of
fuch a t:ſtimony to: the facts 1 haye advaneed, by
giving a tranſlation of that narrative. Extra& of a Letter from the Sjeuy Sgr16NeTTE,
Mayor: of la Rochelle, and ſecond perpetual
Secretary of the Academy of that City, to the
publiſher of the French Gazette.

« In the Gazette of the 14th Auguſt, you men-
© tioned the diſcovery. made by Mr. Walſh, Mem-
der


« ber ofthe: parliament of England, and of the
& Royal OEES of London, "he experiment, of
« which, I am.going to give you at account, was
« made in the preſence -of the Academy of this
& \gity, , A, live Tangle yas placed. on a table.
« Round another table;ſtood five perſons inſulated,
& Two braſs, wires,, each. thirteen feet lohg, were
« ſuſpended to'the ceiling by filken ſtrings.