Theſe red veſicles of the blood have not only been
commonly ſuppoſed globular and fluid, but they
have with equal injuſtice been imagined to be oily
and-more inflammable than the reſt of the blood.
"That they are not oily is evident from their ſo rea-
dily diffolving in water ; and that they are not more
inflammable than the reſt of the blood is manifeſt by
burning them after they are ſeparated them from the
reſt of the blood, which ſeparation may be effeQed
by ſhaking the crafſamentum. in the ſerum ſo as to
diffuſe the particles through it; and then, by pouring
off the clear ſerum, when they have fubſided in it; 1
- have ſeparated them in this manner, and compared
"their inflammability with that of inſpiſſated ſerum,
and of dried coagulable lymph, and have not ob-
ſerved them more inflammablethan the ſerum or the
"lymph ; nor do they melt like oils, as ſome have
ſuſpe&ed, but burn like a piece of horn. Some authors, who have written on the figure
of theſe veſicles in_quadrupeds, and in the human
ſubje&, have expatiated on the great advantages of
their, (ſuppoſed) ſpherical ſhape, in” order for their
more ealy circulation ; as it 15 probable that no form
1s preferable to a ſpherical one tor eaſy motion.” But
as theſe veſicles are eyidently not ſpherical bot flat
in. all animals, we muſt believe that nature has
ome good purpoſe to anſwer by making them of
that form. i Ws i
It has been objcRed, that, notwithſtanding they
appear flat out of the body, they may poſlibly be
Ver, EXUL TY globular


[ 316 ]

globular in the body, while circulating ; and it has:
been (aid, that'it is almoſt inconceivable that ſo many
ingenious men ſhould at different times, have viewed'
them through-a- microſcope, and have concluded:
them ſpherical, if they be really flat. But, however”
that-may have happened,. it is a-fact that they are as
flat in the body as out of it.. Of this I am convinced.
by having repeatedly obſeryed them whilft circulat--
ing in the ſmall veſſels between the toesof a frog, both--
in the ſolar microſcope, andthe more ſimple one-
abovementioned.. I have ſeen them with their ſides -
parallel like a number of coins 1aid one againſt ano---
ther, LI have likewiſe- in that animal, where they
are elliptical, ſeen, them-move with one end foremoſt,
and ſometimes with. an edge turned towards the eye.