The linked
condition of electrical induction with chemical decomposition ; of voltaic excitement
with chemical action ; the transfer of elements in an electrolyte; the original cause
of excitement in all cases; the nature and relation of conduction and insulation ; of
the direct and lateral or transverse action constituting electricity and magnetism; with
many other things more or less incomprehensible at present, would all be affected by
it, and perhaps receive a full explication in their reduction under one general law.

1166. 1 searched for an unexceptionable test of my view, not merely in the ac-
cordance of known facts with it, but in the consequences which would flow from it
if true; especially in those which would not be consistent with the theory of action

at a distance. Such a consequence seemed to me to present itself in the direction in
which inductive action could be exerted. If in straight lines only, though not perhaps
decisive, it would be against my view; if in euryed lines also, that would be a natural
result of the action of contiguous particles, but T think utterly incompatible with ac-
tion at a distance, as assumed by the received theories, which, according to every fact
and analogy we are acquainted with, is always in straight lines.

1167. Again, if induction be an action of contiguous particles, and also the first
step in the process of electrolyzation (1164. 949.), there seemed reason to expect s0me
particular relation of it to the different kinds of matter through which it would be
exerted, or something equivalent to a specific electric induction for different bodies,
which, if it existed, would unequiyocally prove the dependence of induction on the

partieles; and though this, in the theory of Porssox and others, has never been sup-
posed to be the case, I was 800n led to doubt the received opinion, and have taken
great pains in subjecting this matter to close experimental examination.

1168. Another ever present question on my mind has been, whether electricity has

B2


4 DR.