The immediate ation of
the ſolar rays, or of the luminous heat, produces a
variety of effeds, which, as I have faid- before, do-
not appear to follow the ſame laws as thoſe of dark
heat, And if I may be allowed to propoſe a, con-
je&ure upon this particular point, before fuller ex--
periments have been made, it ſhould: ſeem, that the
immediate aftion- of the ſolar rays muſt occaſion. a-
greater evaporation than what is produced by dark
heat, even when they hold the thermometer at the-
fame height. But let the cauſe be as it will, we
ke'by this experiment, that in a {eQtion of air about
a foot wide, through which the ſolar rays did not
immediately paſs, the a&tion-of the humor upon the-
hygrometer *was 23 degrees greater than in the
place round about ; though: that of the heat: upon +
the thermometers was only a degree and: a-quarter-
leſs ; which leads us to conceive how' many apparently *
ſmall cauſes may contribute to produce ſenfible dif- -
terences in the diſtribution of the diſcrete humor.

98. Another uſe to be made of theſe obſervations
is; to compare them with thoſe that I have madein the
mountains of Sixt; in order/to form a better Jjudg-
ment of the proportion between” the different de-
grees of humidity, in the ſuperior and inferior parts -
of the. atinoſphere., My. hygrometer, held in the
ſhade upon the ſummit of Buet, roſe to 1323,
and was, not yet ſtationary, This is pretty nearly-
the greateſt degree of dryneſs obſerved in the . hy-
grometer expoſed tothe ſun in the rn N

the


[ 453 }

the one that remained in the, ſhade, the ſame upon
which the. obſervation at the mountain had been
made, was not _in fact higher than 103, though
marked in the table of obſervations at 107 (91).

99+ But the difference between the obſervations,
made upon the mountain of Sixt, and thoſe I am
{peaking of, was {till greater by much after ſun-ſet.

he 3oth of Auguſt, at a quarter after ten at night,
I obſerved. the hygrometer without, fide the cottage
upon. the, mountain, and found it_ at 12379); and
on the 13th of September following, in the plain,
it was not higher than: 31. at 9, and 24 at 10 o'clock.
"The wind was ſouth, and the height of the barome-
ter upon the plain, pretty much the ſame dufing both
the obſervations, '

100. It is true that, notwithſtanding the ſimila-
rity of theſe circumſtances, theſe obſeryations cannot
be direaly compared, on account of the diſagree -
ment in ſome other circumſtances. In the firſt
place, the difference of fourteen days at this ſeaſon
of the year may have produced a ſenſible change in
the ſtate of the air.