T ſhall add, that though my hy=
grometer was expoſed to the open air on the moun-
tain, as it was in the plain, yet it was not ſo much
inſulated there, being tied to the box of my portable
barometer. 'The ditference obſerved, however, is ſo
conſiderable, that, notwithſtanding the concurrence of
all theſe particular cauſes, I cannot but aſcribe it in
ſome meaſure to that general one which I have
ſuſpe&ed, namely, that there is comparatively a leſs
degree of humidity in the upper than in the lower
parts of the atmoſphere. ” , :
_ To1, The obſervation of the 13th of September
ſeems likewiſe to throw ſome light upon the phe-
nomena "of dew, We' know that when the ſky is
cloudy, there is little or no dew, and it has likewiſe
been obſerved from this very circumſtance, that the
air is not ſo much cooled alter fun-ſet, The cauſe
of theſe differences appears to me 'to be, that when
there are no clouds in the air at ſun-ſet, or when
they are diſperſed, the heat of the inferior air, and
that which rifes from the earth, diſſipates itſelf into
the ſuperior regions, and then the vapours which are
diſperted throughout the air condenle and fall down
again in dew ; but when the clouds are continued,
and thus ſeparate the inferior from the ſuperior air,
they prevent this diffipation of the heat, and the va-
pours remain ſuſpended.” And 'if the ſky grows
cloudy ſome hours after the ſetting of the ſun, and
after the heat has ſenlibly diminiſhed” in the inferior
air, it encreaſes again in it ; becauſe the heat, which
continues to rife out of the earth, is accumulated in
the inferior air. This appears in the obſervation [
am ſpeaking of. "The clouds having been ſepa«
5 rated


[455]

rated for a while, at 10 o'clock there was ſome dew,
and the hygrometer, fell ſenſibly till eleven : but af-,
terwards the clouds clofing again, the heat encreaſed,
and the humidity evidently diminiſhed;

102.*T take it for granted here,” that the moſt
common and moſt plehtiful dew proceeds from the
air, and not from the earth, as ſome philoſophers
have imagined. IT ſhould produce the proofs I have
colleed of this fact from a multitude of experi-
ments, if it had not been done in an excellent paper,
written by Profeſſor le Roi, On the elevation - and
ſuſpenſion of water in the'air *, Theſe phenomena
of the dew become yery intereſting examined with
the helpof the hygrometer, and joined to obſervations
of the degrees of faturation'of the air with reſpet to
water, which haye been ſo ingeniouſly imagined,
and begun by the author of this memoir, If this
part of natural philoſophy is ever cleared up, as I
hope it will be, we ſhall be much indebted for it to
the ſagacity of this true philoſopher,

103. I ſhall only mention one- more obſervation
I have endeavoured to make; with my bygrometer,
which ought not to. be omitted, as it is connected
with the principles upon which the inſtrument_ is
conſtructed. It has likewiſe a reference to medicine,
in as much as one of the objects of that ſcience, in
Its inquiries to preſerve our health, is to determine
the effects of water at different degrees of heat upon
our organs.