The mean height of the -
four new. ones is. already (the beginning of Novem-

ber) \


[ 458 ]
her) 17 degrees leſs than it was in the months of
Auguſt and September.

108. -]. hope this paradox will be explained, and
that the principles which may clear it up will draw
uſeful conſequences along with them. Thoſe phi-
loſophers who look, upon evaporation as a diſſolution
of water by air in the manner of menſtrua, that
is, by affinity, will-cafily apply their principle to the
folution of part of theſe phznomena. 'The difſo-
lution is greater when the menſtruum is warmer, and
coniequently; the air muſt Keep a greater quantity of
water. in diſſolution, and ſuffer a leſs part of it to
be, precipitated, in, ſummer than in winter, I can»
not but allow that this ſyſtem is extremely ſpecious,
and that many _phznomena are very happily ex-
plained. by means of it. This is what Mr. le Roy
has ſhewn us in the memoir I have already quoted ;
in which, without contending that air really ads as
a menſtruum with reſpe> to water, he demonſtrates,
by, a parallel, very well Kept up, that all the chemi-
cal, expreſſions concerning diffolutions may with
propriety be applied to deſcribe the ſeveral phe-
nomena he examines, relative to the elevation and
ſuſpenſion of water in air, as well as to its precipi=
tation under different forms. :

109, 1k,it, was not too common a praQtice, to
conclude things from words, I ſhould in fact think
theſe chemical expreſſions very conveniently adapted
to explain a number of theſe phznomena. But I
have rejected. them here, on account of this conſi-
deration ; that when, I took in a greater number
of phznomena, 1 found them no longer accurate,

any more than the general idea of the diffolu-
tion


[ #39 ]

tion of water by air, I have given the reaſons for
this i my work, upon the modification 6f the at
moſphere; and ſhall 6nly repeat here, that theſe ni6«
difieations of the humor appear ts me almokt intirely
fo be produced by the igneous fluid ; and that if the
air his any (rein them, it is only as NY att
elaſtic. flaid. The particles of theſe fluids, each 2G
cording to its degree of power, ſtrike, ſeparate, and
draw along with them thoſe of the humor, and com-
municate to them the elaſticity they poles ; in the
fame manner as they do tothe particles of all volatile,
and likewiſe of all fixt ſubſtances which they cor-
rode and decompoſe.

110, This ſyſtem will not only furniſh a ſolution
of the paradox which engages our attention, but will, I
believe, carry us much farther.