On
thoſe ſleep the children and ſecondary perſonages of the
hut; for the oven itſelf is a luxury reſerved for the firſt,
Round the room runs a bench with a table in the middle,
and in the corner is a ſort of cupboard for the reception
of ſaints, before whom ſmall tapers frequently burn, or
alamp with hemp oil, During the long ſevere winter

ſeaion,


(G24 Dr. GUTHRIE 07! the Antiſeptic Regimen

ſeaſon, the cold prevents them from airing this habita-
tion, ſo that you may eaſily conceive, that the air cannot
be very pure, confidering that four, five, or ſix people eat
and fleep-in one room, and undergo, during the night, a
.moſt ſtewing proceſs from the heat and cloſeneſs of their
Aituation; .inſomuch that they have the appearance of
<Heing dipped in water, and raiſe a ſteam and ſmell in the
room, not offenſive to themſelves, but ſcarcely ſupporta-
ble to the perſon whom curioſity may lead thither. Now if it be conſidered, that this human efluvium
muſt adhere to every thing in the room, eſpecially to the
ſheep {kins or mattraſs on which they {leep, the moſs in
the walls, 8c. and that the apartment is never ventilated
for ſix months at leaſt; at the ſame time that theſe people
are living occaſionally upon falt fiſh or mat, and the
whole time without freſh vegetables, expoſed likewiſe
when out of doors to a ſevere cold atmoſphere, the ſcor-
butic tendency of which is well known: I ſay, when all
theſe circumſtances are taken into conſideration, if it be
a fact that they are, in ſpite of all thoſe pre-diſpoſing
cauſes, ſtrangers to putrid diſeaſe, it will ſufficiently juſ-
tify my. firſt aſſertion, that the regimen nature has
dictated to theſe people is moſt highly antiſeptic, and it
may be doing ſervice to mankind to deſcribe it minutely,

5 This


_ of the Natives of Ruſſia. 625
This I ſhall endeavour to do, and it will probably give
pleaſure to thoſe gentlemen, who have preſcribed the
new regimen to the Britiſh navy with ſo much ſucceſs,
to have the evidence of ſome millions to prove, that they
have actually hit upon the very ſecret by which nature
defends her creatures, in thoſe countries where it is ne-
ceflary, from the very diſeaſe which has been the ſcourge
of the nobleſt naval eſtabliſhment that ever the world
ſaw. Nay, one would think that the diet theſe peo-
ple uſe had been dictated by modern philoſophy, or ra-
ther that *your Prefident, your MACBRIDE's, &c. had
Rudied at this ſchool; for almoſt every thing they uſe
ſeems to be of that kind which the fortunate attention to
the antiſeptic qualities of fixed air has recommended for
medical uſe. Here the experimental philoſopher may
be indulged in a triumph; and I really think your lords
of the admiralty ought in gratitude to erect ſtatues to
the induſtrious and ſucceſsful proſecutors of that noble
and uſeful ſtudy,

The only part of the food of our Northern people,
that does not come under the deſcription given, is falt
meat and fiſh; the latter they eat during their faits
where freſh fiſh cannot he procured, at leaſt not upon
terms that ſuit their circumſtances; and there are alſo
ſome places where the ſcarceneſs of fodder during the

Vol.