Referring to my Selenotopographic Fragments for the proofs
I there adduced of the real existence of a lunar atmosphere,
which had been $0 frequently doubted ; I shall also appeal to
the same work for the' observations I formerly made on, several
of its relative properties, compared with the 'same in our at-
mosphere, such as its greater dryness, rarity, and. clearness,
which, however, do not prevent its refracting. the solar rays, *
having” pointed out the circumstance, that the mountains in
the dark hemisphere of the moon, near its luminous border,
which are of sufficient height to receive the light of the sun,
are the more feebly illuminated the more distant they are from
that border: from which proofs of a refracting atmosphere, I
also deduced the probability of the existence of a faint twilight,
which, however, my long series. of observations. had not yet.
fully evinced. »

- As one fortunate diseovery often leads to-another, I had no
$800ner 8ucceeded in my observations on the twilight of Venus,
than I directed my attention to- that of the moon, and applied


338 Mr. SCHROETER's Observations

the calculations and inferences I there made, to some appear-
ances I had already noticed on this satellite. It occurred to me,
that if in fact there were a twilight on the moon, as there is
on Venus and our earth, it could not, considering the greater
rarity of its atmosphere, be so considerable: and that the
vestiges of it, allowing for the brightness of the luminous part
of the moon, the strong light that is thence thrown upon the
field of the telescope, and in some measure the reflected light
of our earth, could only be traced on the limb, particularly at
the cusps ; and even this only at the time when our own twi-
light is not strong, but the air very clear, and when the moon,
in one of its least phases, is in a high altitude, either in the
spring, following the sun two days after a new moon, or in
the autumn, preceding the sun in the morning, with the same
aspect: in a word, that the projection of this" twilight will
be the greater and more perceptible the more falcated the
phase, and the higher the moon above the horizon, and out of
our own twilight. This struck me the more, as I recollected
having, two years ago, perceived such an appearance at the
outward edge, near the points of the cusps, though I did not
then reflect on the cause of it. As all the requisite circumstances, however, do not often
coincide, I thought myself particularly fortunate when; on the
24th of February, I was favoured with a lucky combination
of them.