An Account of Baptiſms, Marriages, and Burials,
during Forty Tears, in the Pariſh of Blandford Forum,
Dorſet. Communicated by Richard Pulteney, AM. D,
F.R.S.

TO'DR. WATSON), F. R. $.

$1 R

Read Mar, 1g, As the ſubjects of the following tables-

Hap haye been much diſcufſed of late, I
take the liberty of Putting theſe into your hands, encou-
raged thereto by your aſſurances, when I had the plea-
{ure of ſeeing you laſt in town, that they might not im-
properly be laid before the Royal Society, If upon in-
tpection you ſhould-continue to think fo, you will do me
the honour of preſenting them, :

Excluſive of general curioſity, I was alſo induced to
examine the regiſter of this place, in order to determine
how far the general opinion, which gives the credit of
extraordinary falubrity to this country, was founded on
fact, as far as that could be proved by this mode of exa-
mination, I found that the regiſter had been kept with

ſufficient:


616 Dr. PULTENEY's Account of the
ſufficient accuracy in the uſual method; that, ſince the
recovery of this place from the dreadful fire of 1731,
ſcarcely any new houſes had been built, at leaſt on any
new ſite; that no flutuation in the number of inhabi-
tants from the introduction of any new manufa&tory, or
from any other apparent cauſe, had taken place; and was
therefore led to conclude, that the reſult might prove
a tolerably fair one, and more eſpecially upon finding
the exceſs of the baptiſms above the burials ſo ſmall as it
appears to be, In the year 1773, when theſe tables were drawn up,
1 alfo procured the number of the people to be taken;
by which it appeared, that there were 446 families,
reckoning a workhoulſe of 44 perſons, and three {chools
containing 92, as four families only, which gives nearly
43 to a family. T he whole number of ſouls in the pariſh
was found to be, males 1174; females 936, total 2110;
but it muſt be remarked, that in this number were not
included any of the inhabitants of the cloſe adjoining
villages of St, Mary, Blandford, Brianfton, or Langton.