Such are all the observations relative to the extensive atmosphere of Mars
which my observatory can furnish. One of these, viz. that of the 17th of last
March, demands further consideration, lest, having served to invalidate one
hypothesis, it might be brought forward to support another ; namely, that
* the red colour of the planet Mars is dependent upon the physical properties
of his atmosphere.”* Moreover, it seems inconsistent with a previous ob-
servation.

'The star 37 Tauri had © nearly the colour of Mars” whilst in contact with
the planet ; whereas, the star 42 Leonis was © beautifully blue” previously and
subsequently to occultation by the planet. The facts are different ;—are they
reconcileable? 'The following then are extracts from the Observatory Journal. On the night following the obseryation of 37 Tauri, namely, the 18th of
March, © the five-feet Equatorial was placed upon Mars, in order to compare
its colour with that of 37 Tauri; the star and planet were still in the field to-
gether, though nearly at opposite points of its circumference. © I can have no
hesitation in saying, that the star is red, but not of s0 deep a tint as the planet.”

* Mars being placed out of the field, I requested an attendant (accustomed
to use a telescope) to look at the star and to tell me its colour; entirely un-

* Vide Baewsres's Encyclopedia, yol. ii, pages 636 & 637 (article Mars).


422 8IR JAMES SOUTH ON THE EXTENSIVE ATMOSPHERE OF MARS.

acquainted with the bearing of the question, and ignorant of the colour as-
signed to it by me, he replied, © Certainly a light red” Mars was now brought
into the field with the star, and being asked what colour he now considered
the star to have, he answered, * Certainly red, but not s0 deep a red as Mars.”
Looking at it again, he said, © Mars is the darker, but there is not a great
deal of difference.” ”

« I now applied several other eye-pieces, magnifying from 70 to 548 times,
and with all of them I felt convinced that the star was red, but not s0 deep a
red as Mars.”

« Whilst the colour of 37 Tauri was fresh in my recollection,” I placed the
Equatorial upon 42 Leonis, when it had nearly the same altitude as that star;
I instantly pronounced the star 42 Leonis to be blue—light blue. The
attendant was now requested to look again at 37 Tauri, and to retain its
colour in his mind as much as possible : 42 Leonis was next brought into the
field; he said, © This star is certainly not red at all; I do not know what colour
it is, unless a light blue.” Alternating the examination of the one star with
that, of the other several times, and with yarious powers, he at last aid, * Tt
is certainly blue, and the first is certainly red.”

The comparisons were repeated with the 12-feet Achromatic of 7+ inches
aperture, and the inferences drawn from them were the same; and, if just, the
observations of 37 Tauri and 42 Leonis are perfectly reconcileable.