The diſpoſition. of the interior parts.of theſe hills: is. pretty
much alike, except when ſome inſurmountable obſtacle prevents;
for inftance;' when the king and queen-have been firſt lodged near:
the foot of a-rock or of a tree, they are certainly built out. of the
uſual form, otherwiſe pretty nearly according to-the following;
plan,
/The royal chamber. is ſituated at about alevel with the ſur-:
face: of the ground, at aw equal diſtance\from all- the fides/'of
the building, and direAly under the apex.0f the hill (tab; VIL.
fig#/2..A. A). ;

(:2) Mr xon16, who! has examined' theſe kind of neſts in-the Eaſt Indies, in an
Eflay upon the Termites, read before. the 'Society of Naturaliſts of Berlm, con«
jeFtares, that theſe muſhrooms are the food ofthe young inſets. This ſuppoſition”
implies, that the: old} ones have a methbd of providing for and promoting their,
growth ; a circumltanee which, however ſtrange -to_ thoſe unacquainted with the
fagacity of theſe Inſects, I will venture to ſay, from many other extraordinary facts
I have ſeen: of them, is not very improbable,

N. B. Mi. xovrs has not diſcoyered the magazines of proviſions in the neſts
which he opened, as far as Tam informed; 'but I muſt obſerye here, that what T.
have learned of this gentleman's account was from an extempore tranſlation of the

heads-'of, it,

In


the Termites of Africa and other hot Climates, 155

.2It'1s on all fides, ' both above and below, ſurrounded by

what T ſhould call: the roya/ apartments, which have only la-

bourers and ſoldiers in them, and can be intended for no other

purpoſe than for theſe to wait in, either to guard or ſerve their

common FATHER and MOTHER, on whoſe ſafety depends the

happineſs, and, according to the negroes, even the exiſtence

of the whole community, p

\ Theſe apartments compoſe an intricate labyrinth, which ex-
A
Stends a foot or- more in diameter from the royal chamber on
Zevery fide, Here the nurſeries and magazines of proviſions be-
v£in, and, being ſeparated by ſmall empty chambers and galleries,
Zwhich go round them or communicate from one to the other,
Are continued on all fides to the outward ſhell, and reach up
Svithin it two-thirds, or three-fourths of its height, leaving an
Dpen area in the middle under. the dome, which very, much
Feſembles the nave of an old cathedral : this is ſurrounded by
Shree or four very large Gothic-ſhaped arches, which are ſome-
Zimes two or three feet high next the front' of the area, but
Jiminiſh very rapidly as they recede from thence like the arches
[Þf aiſles in perſpeQives, and are ſoon loſt among the innume-
[Sable chambers and nurſeries behind them.