Although I be positively certain of this very remarkable ap-
pearance at both cusps, and of its perſect similarity, in all my
observations, I could not, however, trace any vestige of a like
crepuscular light at any other part of the terminating border :
nor could I on the very next evening, being the 23th, and also
on the 26th of February, perceive, even at the cusps, any of
the twilight I expected to see there; the very thin, faint, lu-
minous line which did indeed appear on the 26th, at the
southern cusp between a and b, fig. g, being undoubtedly the

Yys


344 Mr. SCHROETER'S Observations

effect of the immediate solar light, probably illuminating some
prominent, flat area, as yet situated in the dark hemisphere. Thus far the observations: and now for the application of
them. ;

I need hardly insist upon the proofs, that the very faint pyra-
midal glimmering light, observed on the 24th of February, at
the extremities of both cusps, could by no means be the imme-
diate effect of the solar light, all the circumstances of the ob-
servations militating uniformly and decidedly against this
supposition, which, were it true, would oblige us to admit a
most unaccountable diminution of light, and thence also a
density of the lunar atmosphere, that ought to exceed even
the density of ours; a fact absolutely contradicted by all the
lunar. observations hitherto made. This light, indeed, was s0
very faint, that it disappeared at /7* 20', when the moon ap-
proached the horizon ; whilst, on the other hand, Aristarchus,
which had no light but what it received from the earth, was
$ill very distinguishable ; and the summit of Leibnitz 1, fig. 1,
(which, though far within the dark hemisphere, was, however,
illuminated by the immediate solar rays) displayed a degree-of
brightness which, although when compared with that of the
cusp d ef, it appeared very faint and dwindling, equalled, how-
ever, that of our Pic of Teneriffe. Nor can it be. conceived
why this glimmering light broke off so suddenly at both the
cusps, without a progressive diminution.