This question is of considerable moment ; for should the force between the discs be
in any way influenced by a precarious distribution of the electricity, on or about their
surfaces, and liable to become further complicated by the distribution on the surfaces
of the conductors, and other bodies placed occasionally in tortuous connection with
them, as in fig. 7, 8, 9, it would, perhaps, be impossible to say what we did really
measure by any instrument such as that described; we should at least require the aid
of a formidable analysis involving definite integrals of unknown functions to deter-
mine it: fortunately however such is not the case; the force between the attracting
plates m, F, stands, as may be clearly shown by experiment, quite clear of any hypo-
thetical distribution whatever of the electricity, with which the discs are charged, or
with which any series of bodies may be charged in connection with them. Thus the
general laws of electrical action arrived at in my former communications remain

uninfluenced by any new condition of the connecting rods, or other bodies of variable
form, with which the attracting bodies may happen to be connected. The question,
therefore, what do we measure? is very casily answered, as readily, in fact, as a similar

* There are some precautions essential to observe in the use of this and similar instruments, which will be
apparent as we proceed.
+ Transactions of the Royal Society for 1834.

2F2


218 MR. HARRIS ON THE ELEMENTARY LAWS "OF ELECTRICITY.

question would be, if applied to the thermometer or any other instrument, the nature
of whose indications are necessarily determined by experiment. Thus we observe
that with double, treble, &c. quantities of electricity, either accumulated on the insu-
lated plate f, or on any insulated conductor connected with it, we have invariably 4,
9, &c. times the attractive force indicated on the graduated arc, the distance between
the discs remaining the same ; no matter for the form of the charged bodies in con-
nexion with the insulated plate f, or the form or disposition of any number of rods
connecting them.