We are indebted to Scawanv for the yery important discovery, that * for all
the elementary parts of organisms there is a common principle of deyelopment ;” the
elementary parts of tissues having, as he has shown, a like origin in cells, however dif-
ferent the functions of those tissnes. 'The facts made known in the present memoir,
if established by future observation, will not only afford proofs of the justness of the
views of ScawaNn, but they will farther show that objects having all the same colour,
form, and general appearance, namely, the corpuscles of the blood, enter immediately
into the formation of tissues which physiologically are extremely different. We have
seen Some of these corpuscles to arrange themselves into muscular fibre, and others
to become metamorphosed into constituent parts of the chorion. It is not, however,
more difficult to conceive objects 80 much alike undergoing transformations for pur-
poses 80 different, than it is to admit a fact made known by two of my preceding
memoirs}; namely, that the nucleus of a cell having a central situation in the group
which constitutes the. germ, is developed into the whole embryo, while the nuclei of
cells occupying less central situations in the group, form no more than a minute por-
tion of a membraneh. It is known that in the bee-hive, a grub is taken for a special
purpose, from among those born as workers, which it perfectly resembles until non-
righed with peculiar food, when its development takes a different course from that of
every other individual in the hive.

+ © The nerves,” says SCHWANN, * appear to arise in the same manner as the muscles; namely, through
coalescence of primary cells in contact with one another and in a line, by which there is formed a secondary
cell, But the primary nerve-cells have not been with certainty observed, because—s0 long as they are primary
cells—they are not to be distinguished from the neutral cells, out of which arises the whole organ.***The fibres
[secondary cells] are pale, granulated, and**#hollow. There now takes place, as in muscles, a secondary de-
posit upon the inner surface of the fibre-wall, that is, upon the inner surface of the membrane of the secondary
nerve-cell.***On the appearance of this deposit the cell-nuclei are usually absorbed ; yet single ones continue,
and then lie externally between the [deposited] substance and the [Secondary] cell-membrane,**#as in muscles,
The remaining cavity of the secondary cell-appears to be occupied by a tolerably firm substance, the band dis-
covered by Renax.” (Scawaxy in R, Wacxxx's Lehrbuch der Physiologie, I. pp. 141, 142.) Should it be
found that nerves too are formed of blood-corpuscles, this band of Rzxax may perhaps be constituted by con-
lesced objects similar to those apparently uniting to form the central substance in the muscle-cylinder (par. 38.),
and which appear to be the exxential part of altered corpuscles of the blood. —* The external appearance of
tendons in the embryo,” says VaLexTINS, © is reddish, and not unlike the pale muscle-structures.” (Entwickel-
ungsgeschichte, p. 270.)

4 Rexsearches in Embryology, Second and Third Series, 1. e.

$ Which I provisionally called the amnion,


Corpusctes of t *

—- SF ® '
*O 9» REI"
© 9,50.