Mr. Stephens alſo told me, that his father
{who was a naturaliſt) obſerved at the time, he had read of fimilar
inſtances in the northern writers, This fa&tis alſo confirmed to
me by the Reverend -Dr, Pye, who was then at ſchool in Shri-
venhamz "as alfo by a'very ſenſible land-ſurveyor, who now lives
in the village. :

Vor, LXII, Pp Olbeck



[ 290 }

Oſbeck afterwards, in the courſe of "his voyage,
mentions, that'a ſwallow (indefinitelyY followed/the
ſhip, near Java, on the 24th'of July,” and another
on the 14th of Auguſt, in the'Chineſe' ſea,/ as he:
terms it. After what T have obſerved' before with-regard\to
other inſtances of the ſame” ſort, T need ſcarcely ſay
that this naturaliſt does not ſtate of what ſpecies'theſe
ſwallows were; and that, from the latitudes in'which:
they were ſeen, they muſt have been' ſome of the
Afiatic kinds. |

1 cannot, however, diſmiſs this article of the ſwal-
low, without adding ſome general reaſons, which
ſeem to proye the great improbability: of this: or any;
other bird's periodically migrating over wide tracs'oE
fea; and I the 'rather do it in this place," becauſe

There, are ſeyeral, reaſons why ſwallows ſhould not be-fre-
quently thus found 3. ponds are ſeldom cleanedin- the/ winter,.
a$'it is ſuch cold work. for the Jabourers3. and; the ſame inſtin&t
which prompts the. bird thus to. conceal! itſelf, inſtrus it to
chooſe ſuch a place of ſecurity, that common accidents will not:
diſcover it,

But the ftrongeſt reaſon for ſuch accounts not” being more
numerous, 4s, that/faQts'of this ſort are-ſo little attended to; for
though-L vas: born) within, half, a..mile,,of| this pond, and have
always had much curioſity with regard to ſuch facts, yet I. never
heard a ſyllable-about this very. material atid intereſting account,,
till very lately. 80-4

Ts this fa muſt; alſo: add,. that; ſwallows may, be, con-
ſtantly, taken,in/the-month of October, during, the dark nights,
whilſt they ſit on the willows in the Thames, and that one may:
almoſt inſtantaneouſly fill a large fack with them; becauſe at/this
time they will not tir fromthe twigs, when you Jay) yourthands
upon ther. /”Phis looks: very; much; like their, beginning to, bo
torpid hefore-they;bide.themſelyes under the water, ,

A man near Brentford ſays, that he hath: caught them'in this
ſtate in the eyt oppoſite to that town, even ſo late as November...
4 e


[ 292 ]
the allow 1is commonly pitched. upon. as the moſt

notorious inſtance; of ſuch a. regular pallage. This ſeems to ariſe; firſt from, its, being ſeen in
ſich. numbers during/the ſummer, from. its appear-
ing almoſt always on the wing, and from its feeding
in that. poſition; from which two latter circumſtances

it:is ſuppoſed to; be the belt adapted for ſach diſtant
migrations,

i And: firſts} let us confider, from the few faQts or

reaſons. we have. to argue/from, what length of flight
either a ſwallow or any other bird is probably equal

to. A ſwallow, it-is true, ſeems, tobe always. on the
wing ;- but I have frequently attended, as much as,
«could;+ 0n/a/ particular, one 3 and/it hath appeared to

me; that-the bird, commonly returned to 1t5, neſt in
eight or ten minutes ; as for extent of flight, I believe
I-may-/venture. to ſay, that theſe birds are ſeldom _a
quarter of mile from their mate or young ones; they

feed whilſt on the wing, and are perpetually; turning
ſhort round to catch the inſets, who endeavour to
elude: them-as a hare does a greyhound.

1t therefore ſeems to me, that ſwallows are by.no

means equal to long flights, from their praQice-during
their ſummer reſidence with us.