If the landrail therefore migrates. from the conti-
nent of Europe to Ireland, which it muſt otherwiſe
do, the neceflary conſequence. is, that many muſt
paſs. oyer England in their way Weſtward to Ireland ;
and why do net more of theſe birds continue with
us, but, on the contrary, immediately proceed acroſs
the St. George's channel ? Whence ſhould it ariſe alſo, if they paſs over this
iſland periodically in the ſpring and autumn, that
they are never obſerved in ſuch paſſage, as I have
alteady ftated their rate in flying to be exceſſively
flow; to which I may add, that I never ſaw them
riſe to the height of twenty yards from the ground,
nor indeed exceed the pitch of a quail,

* Br, Zool. p. 387+
I have


[ 319 }

T have now, ſubmitted. the beft; anfyers that have
occurred, not only to the geveral arpuments for the
migration'of birds acroſs oceans, but alfo/to the parti
cular fats, which are” relied upon_'as a&tual” proofs
of ſuch. a regular and periodical paſſage. ,

Though I, may be poſſibly miſtaken in many, of
S the conje&ures I have made, yer I'think T*cannot_be
© Confuted but by new facts, and to ſuch freſh evidence,
E properly authenticated, 'T ſhall moſt readily give up
= every point, which I have from preſent convition
S been contending'for.

[4 I may then perhaps alſo flatter myſelf, that the
S Having expreſſed my doubts with regard to the proofs
= hitherto, relied upon, |in ſupport of migration, may
= have contributed to ſuch new, and more accurate
Z obſervations,

S It is to be wiſhed, however, that theſe more con-
; vincing and deciſive facts may be received from
S iſlanders (the morediſtant from any land the better*
= and not from the inhabitants of a continent; as it
= does not ſeem to be-a fair inference, becauſe certain
Z birds leave certain ſpots at particular times, that they

5 therefore migrate acroſs a wide extent of ſea. S Por example, ſtorks diſappear in Holland during
S the winter, and they have not a. very wide tract of
2 fea between them and England ; yet this bird never
E- Trequents our coaſts,

* I would particularly propoſe: the ifſands of Madera and
St. Helena; to theſe, I would alſo add the land of Aſcenſion

Chad it any inhabitants), as Jikewiſs Juan Fernandez, for the
Pacifigk ocean,

The


[ 329 Þ

The ſtork, however, may be truely conſidered” as
a bird of paſſage, by the inhabitants of thoſe parts.
of Europe (wherever ſituated). to which it may be.
ſuppoſed to reſort during the winter, and where it.is;
not ſeen during the ſummer.