But light discs of wood and
paper, and discs of paper covered with silver or gold leaf, remained at rest when
within ths of an inch distance from the rotating body.

(g) A disc of iron or tempered steel did not communicate motion to any

#* Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society for 1825. Although a sheet or two of tinned iron completely intercepts the influence of a revolving magnet on
metallic discs generally, it does not appear to do 80 when the disec acted on is also of iron, 1 found,
however, that a screen of sheet iron of about one fourth of an inch thick materially diminished the in-
fluence eyen on an iron disc, 80 that the rotation of an iron disc by the influence of a revolving magnet
is reduced nearly to that of a copper disc of the same dimensions when the iron screen is not present,
This curious effect, of screens may possibly lead to some further elucidation of the nature of magnetic
influence,


OF WHICH VARIOUS SUBSTANCES ARE SUSCEPTIBLE, 73

substance not permanently magnetic ; nor could motion be induced by the
action of such substances on each other, however near they could be placed
with an interyening screen ; although the rapidity of the rotating body was
caused to exceed 1000 revolutions in a minute.

(h) A needle of soft iron was not influenced by a copper disc revolving at
the rate of 600 times in a minute; but rotated freely when surrounded by a
helix transmitting an electro-magnetic current.

(7) Adise of tempered steel not magnetic, after simple contact with a power-
ful magnet acquired sufficient force to induce motion in metallic rings.

(&k) A needle of tempered steel was not influenced by a rotating disc of soft
iron at the distance of one fifth of an inch, and revolving at the rate of 600
times in a minute; but the needle reyolved rapidly after simple contact.
with a magnet.

(1) Magnetic needles delicately mounted on an horizontal axis s0 as to admit
of motion in a vertical plane, remained at rest when the axis was perpendicular
to the radius of the reyolving disc ; but the needles appeared to be carried in
the direction of its motion when the axis was turned in the same plane.

10. The above facts seem to show very clearly, that the presence of permanent
magnetism, and a susceptibility of magnetic induction are essential conditions
in the phenomena of rotation hitherto observyed : at least this deduction is fair
for all distances between the bodies at which they can be well placed with an
intervening screen : without a screen it seems extremely difficult ever to arrive
at a satisfactory result ; since eyen in a very rare medium (Exp (a), (b), (c),
(d)) vortices are produced by the action of a rapidly revolving body, although
with perfectly rounded and smooth edges, capable of carrying round light sub-
stances ; and although separated from snch substances by a considerable in-
teryal. So far therefore as this method of examining the influence which bodies
not permanently magnetic can exert on each other extends, it seems not s1s-
ceptible of the requisite precision ; and is, therefore, in a great degree inade-
quate to detect any very minute and delicate force, which can be supposed to
arise from such an influence.

11. The law according to which metallic or other discs in a state of rotation
influence a permanent magnet seems to be directly as the rapidity of the rota-
tion, and inyersely as the squares of the distances between the attracting

MDCCCXXXI.