Subsequently to the completion of the experiments detailed in this paper, my
attention was drawn to a paper in the American Philosophical Transactions, entitled
Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism, by Dr. Hexnzy of Philadelphia, Third
Series, I have not had the opportunity of seeing the previous series, but find that
the present investigations of this celebrated experimentalist have been directed to
the discovery of inductive actions in common electricity analogous to those of gal-
yanic, and I was in great hopes that Dr, Henry had examined the action of the spark ;
his views, howeyer, appear to me to have been directed to other objects. In the twenty-ninth paragraph he alludes to the spark appearing when the ends of
the second coil were rubbed together; in the thirty-first, that by uniting a numher of
coils the brilliancy of the spark was much reduced; and in the ninety-sixth, to the
fact of the induced current in an adjoining conductor being more powerful than in
the first, and that to render the spark visible, the electricity must be projected through
a small distance of air: the following experiment was suggested by those of Dr. Henry.

38, Five cells of Professor Dax1eLL's constant battery were charged and connected
with the electro-magnetic machine (22.); the primary coil of the apparatus (29.) was
connected with. the secondary wire of the machine (22.), and the micrometer elec-
trometer (12.) to the secondary wire or coil of the apparatus (29.) ; the armature of
the machine rotated, but no spark appeared even through 2th of an inch, although
slight shocks could be perceived; but when the secondary coils of both instruments
(22. 29.) were, connected together, a minute þut brilliant spark paged at the break
of the primary wire of the apparatus (29.) through ath of an inch. It. is, not my intention to intrude any theoretical opinions of my own, but I will

®"'f have dhnce repeated” the experiments as to the evidence of 'chemical action with great care, and after
niany trials have-at tength been/enabled to-obtain chemical decompoxition of a solution of iodide of potassium
inthe followingmanner.,;{ fastened about two inches of platinum yire to/each end of the pile of 10,000 series ;
the two points were approximated parallel to each other, about a quarter of an inch apart ; a piece of bibulous
paper, faturated with a solution of iodide of potassium, placed on a slip of glass, was then brought into contact
with the ends of the Hl and the iodine invariably appeared on that attached to the end of the pile termina-
ting with the oxide of manganese,—Nov/ 192ky/1839.


192 MR.