Les lignes noires (dark
transverse stria?) ne 8ont, selon nous, que les bords des lignes blanches (light trans-
verse $trize) : ces lignes blanches sont les filets du tissu cellulaire qui enveloppe s0us
forme de spirale les fibres 6I6mentaires, et forme de cette manidre la gaine||.”

It will at once appear from the preceding statements, that the nature of these

* « Quod causam istarum rugaram quz tum in fasciculis fibrarum muscularium (Lacerti), tum in fibris mus-
cularibus ipsis (prim. faxcic.), et filis carneis (prim. fibrille) observantur concernit, id jam in principio hujus
capitis attigi, ubi dixi, a filis cellulosis, arteriis, venis, et nervis, fasciculos fibrarum muscularium decussari, et
alternatim expe ita stringi, ut in serpentinos flexus agantur ; idem fit in fibris muscularibus et filis carneis,
quze simili prorsus modo a filis cellulosis, vasculosis, et nerveis percurruntur et decussantur.” —ProCHASKA,
De Carne Musculari, Vienne, 1778, cap. iv, ect. i.

+ Trait6 sur le Venin de la Vipere, p, 229.

} Miruzs's Phys. as translated by BaLy, p. 880.

$ L'Institut, No. 70, 1834.

{| Trait6 pratique du Microscope, Paris, 1839, p, 74-5,


MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 463

markings is yet a matter of dispute among those who have the most carefully studied
this subject, and therefore that a new examination and new facts are required to de-
termine it. Enongh has also been said to show that their nature cannot be ascer-
tained withont elucidating the composition of the whole fasciculus, a circumstance
which induces me to make the following discussion subservient to explain the general
construction of this proximate anatomical element of muscle. In the first place, it is to be remarked, that no doubt seems to exist as to the fact,
that when alternate light and dark spaces are seen on individual fibrille, detached
from the mass, they are precisely equal in width to the light and dark striz on the
fasciculus from which they have been withdrawn. There is therefore an evident cor-
respondence in this respect, between the striz on the fasciculus and the markings on
the fibrillze, a correspondence which is 80 exact, that it is reasonable to believe the
appearance must be the result of the same cause in each condition ; and either that
the striazz must be formed by the coaptation of the markings on neighbouring fibrillz,
or that these markings must be impressions received from the investing striz, as from
a distinct and independent stracture. Which of these alternatives is the correct one,
I shall now attempt to show.