I afterwards removed the-whole apparatus into'a warm room,
and, causing the ice inthe bottle A to: thaw, and suffering the
three bottles to remain till they and their contents had acquired
the exact temperature -of the surrounding|' air, I wiped them
very clean, and, comparing them together, I found their weights
remained unaltered. J

This (experiment I afterwards repeated' several times, and
always with precisely the same result ; the water, in 70 instance,
appearing to gain, or to lose, the least weight, upon being
frozen, or upon! being thawed ; neither were the relative weights
of the fluids in either of the other” bottles-in the least changed,
by the various degrees of heat, and of cold, to which they were
exposed. :

If the bottles were weighed at a. time- when their contents
were not precisely' of the  same temperature, they would fre-
quently appear to: have- gained, or to have lost, something of
their weights ;—but this -doubtless arose from the vertical cur-
rents which they caused in the atmosphere, upon being heated
or cooled in it; or to unequal quantities 'of moisture attached
to the surfaces of the bottles ;—or to both these causes operating
together.


.. the Weight ascribed to Heat. 191

As' I knew; that the» conducting power of mercury, with
respect to! heat, was considerably- greater than either that of
water, or that of spirit: of wine, while'its capacity for receiving
heat is much less than that-of- either 'of them, I did not think
it-necessary to inclose/'a thermometer in the bottle C, which
contained the mercury ;-for it was evident, that when the con-
tents of the other'two bottles should appear; by their thermo-
meters, to have arrived at- the! temperature'of the medium in
which. they. were-exposed; the contents of the "bottle: C could
not fail to/ have acquired. it} also, and-even to.have arrived at it
before, them; for, the time- taken tips in the heating or in the
cooling of any body,- is, ceteris paribus,as the capacity of the
body to- receive and-retain heat, -directly;'and as its conducting
power, inversely. The bottles, were: suspended/ tothe balance by silver wires,
about two inches long, with-hooks at-the ends of them ; and,
in removing. and changing the bottles, I took care not to touch
the glass., 1 likewise, avoided, upon all occasions, and particu-
larly in _the/\cold room, coming-near the balance with my
breath, or touching} it, or any part of the --+220p0%k with my
naked hands.

, Having determined that water does not acquire or lose any
weight, upon, being changed from a state of fluidity to that of
ice, and vice vers, I shall now take my final leave of a subject
which, has long} oceupied-me, and- which has cost me much
pains and trouble; being: fully-convinced, (from the results of
the above/ mentioned experiments, ) that if heat be in fact a $6-
Stance,,or.matter,—a fluid $7 generis, as has been supposed,—
which, passing- from. one body to/another, and being accunu-
lated, is the immediate cause-of the phenomena we observe in

Cce2


192 Count RumrorD's Inquiry concerning

heated bodies, (of which, however, I cannot help entertaining
doubts, ) it must be something 0 infinitely rare, even in'its most
condensed state, as to baffle all our attempts' to discover its gra-
vity. And, if the opinion which has been adopted by many of
our ablest philosophers, that heat is nothing more than an” in-
testine vibratory motion of the constituent parts of heated bodies,
should be well founded, it is clear that the weights of bodies can
in no wise be affected by such motion. :

It is, no doubt, upon the supposition that heat is a substance
distinct from the heated body, and which is accumulated in it,
that all the experiments which have been undertaken, with a
view to determine the weight which bodies have been supposed
to gain, or to lose, upon being heated' or cooled, have been
made; and, upon this supposition (but without, however, adopt-
ing it entirely, as I do not conceive it to' be sufficiently proved, )
all my researches have been directed. The experiments with water, and with 7ce, were made in a
manner which I take to be perfectly unexceptionable;—in
which no foreign cause whatever could affect the results of
them ;—and the quantity of heat which water is known to part
with, upon being frozen, is s0 considerable, that if this loss has
no effect upon its apparent weight, it may be presumed that we
Shall never be able to contrive an experiment by which we can
render the weight of heat sensible.