FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XVI.)

respectively behind them (2067.): that the force which, at the point of contact, in-
duces the particles to assume a new state, cannot enable them to keep that state
(2069.) : that all this happens without any permanent alteration of the parts that
are in contact, and has no reference to their chemical forces (2065. 2069.). |
1803. The chemical theory assumes, that at the place of action, the particles which
are in contact act chemically upon each other and are able, under the circumstances,
to throw more or less of the acting force into a dynamic form (947. 996. 1120.) :
that in the most favourable circumstances, the whole is converted into dynamic force
(1000.): that then the amount of current force produced is an exact equivalent of
the original chemical force employed ; and that in no case (in the voltaic pile) can
any electric current be produced, without the active exertion and consumption of an
equal amount of chemical force, ending in a given amount of chemical change.

1804, Mantanint's paper* was to me a great motive for re-examining the snbject ;
but the course I have taken was not 80 much for the purpose of answering particular
objections, as for the procuring evidence, whether relating to controverted points or
not, which should be satisfactory to my own mind, open to receive either one theory
or the other. This paper, therefore, is not controversial, but contains further facts
and proofs of the truth of Ds 1a Rive's views. The cases Martanint puts are of ex-
treme interest, and all his objections must, one day, be answered, when numerical
results, both as to intensity and quantity of force, are obtained ; but they are all de-
bateable, and, to my mind, depend upon variations of quantity which do not affect
seriously the general question. Thus, when- that philosopher quotes the numerical
results obtained by considering two metals with fluids at their opposite extremities
which tend to form counter currents, the difference which he puts down to the effect
of metallic contact, either made or interrupted, I think accountable for, on the facts
partly known respecting opposed currents; and with me differences quite as great,
and greater, haye arisen, and are given in former papers (1046.), when metallic
contacts were in the circuit.