E - BXP. xV1L, But when the experiment, with-the long
b pointed conductor upon the model, was repeated, and
after the wheel had been turned an equal number of
z times, the point was ſtruck as it paſſed the cylinder; and,
5 at the ſame inſtant alſo, a very ſmall ftream-like explo-
: fion appeared between the two-cramps at the corner of
= the model, darting as it ſeemed from one to the other,
in a direction that was rather particular. This ſtream-
= like appearance, I apprehended, was nothing more than
: the cffect of a ſmall exploſion in conſequence of the no-
= tion of the model. |

,- Mr. wyaTT, who is well acquainted with this. part of
Philoſophy, and to whom great obligations are due from
+ me for his very friendly afliſtance in the whole of this
undertaking, having obſeryed this appearance ſeveral
VoL. LXVUIL *M m times,


268 Papers relative t0 an Accident
times, was curious to confirm. the fact, leſt the preju--
dices of viſion, &c. might poflibly deceive him. The method he took upon this occaſion, was to ob-- |
ſerve an appearance of light along that hip of the roof"
which was next to. the corner ſtruck; and whether the' :
direction of that appearance was- different from the di-
rection of the other appearance he had obſerved at the |
corner between the two cramps. Theſe appearances he
endeavoured to aſcertain by means of a paper tube,.
blacked on the. infide, that was laid'upon a ſtand of a |
proper height, ſo that, when he looked:through it, a pin,
being ſtuck upright at the further end thereof, coincided
with the part in the model he was-to examine; that is,
when the model ſtood direftly-under the cylinder: Being: |
thus circumſtanced, and-when: the corner of the model
(during its motion) paſſed the pin, he ſaw the- direction |
of the light along the hip next the-corner, and alſo be-
tween the cramps at the ſame time; and was poſitive that |
the direction of the light appeared to be downward from
the roof, and, as he thought, horizontal between the two
cramps.