HE Committee appointed by the Royal Soctery

] to direct ithe publication of the Philoſophical
TranſaFions, take this opportunity to acquaint the
Public, that it fully appears, as well from the council-
books and journals of the Society, as from repeated
declarations, which have been made in ſeveral for-
mer Tranſa#ions, that the printing of them was al-
ways, from time to time, the ſingle a& of the re-
ſpeQtive Secretaries, till the Forty-ſeventh Volume,
And this information was thought the more neceſlary,
not only as it has been the common opinion, that they
were publiſhed by the authority, and under the di-
reCtion, of the Society itſelf; but alſo, becauſe ſeveral
authors, both at home and abroad, have in their writ-
ings called them the Tranſattions of the Royal Society. Whereas in truth the Society, as a body, never did
intereſt themſelves any further in their publication,
than by occaſionally recommending the revival of
them to ſome of their Secretaries, when, from the par-
ticular circumſtances of their affairs, the Tranſattions
had happened for any length of time to be intermitted,
And this ſeems principally to have been done with a
view to fatisfy the Public, that their uſual meetings
were then continued for the improvement of know-
ledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their
firſt inſtitution by the Royal Charters, and which they

have ever ſince ſteadily purſued,

But the Society being of late years greatly inlarged,
and their communications more numerous, it was
thought adviſeable, that a Committee of their Mem-
bers ſhould be appointed to reconſider the papers read
before them, and ſelect out of them ſuch, as they

az ſhould


ADVERTISEMENT.
ſhould judge moſt proper for publication in the future
Tranſa#ions; which was accordingly done upon the
26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice
are,-and-wilt-continue to-be;"theitmportance or ſingu-
larity of the ſubje&s, or the advantageous manner of
treating them ; without pretending to anſwer for the
certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reaſonings,
contained in the ſeveral papers fo publiſhed, which
muſt NilÞ reſt on the'credit or judgment of their're-
ſpeQive authors; = ; :
| It is likewiſe neceffary on this occaſion to remark,

that it is an eſtabliſhed rule. of the Society, to which
they will always adhere, never to give their opinion,
as a body, upon any ſubject, either of Nature or Art,
that comes before them. And therefore the thanks,
which are frequently propoſed from the chair, to be
given to. the authors of ſuch papers, as are read at
their accuſtomed meetings, or to the perſons through
whoſe hands they receive them, are to be conſidered
in. no other light than as a matter of civility, in re-
turn for the reſpe&t ſhewn to the Society by thoſe
communications. The like alſo is to be faid with
regard to the ſeveral projects, inventions, and curio-
fities of various kinds, which are often exhibited: to.
the Society ; the authors whereof, or thoſe who ex-
hibit them, frequently take the liberty to report, and
even. to certify in the public news-papers, that they
have met with the higheſt applauſe and approbation.