It is thus that we have happened tohave uſed for a long
time Thermometers of quickfilver. and ſpirits of wine,

in-

[

tion, de deux ſuites de phenomnes qui ſuivent des loix differentes, ſont les inter- bk
ſeftions de ces courbes ; et les errevrs qu'on fait dans les rapports intermediaires 1

enles confiderant comme proportionnels, ſont comme les 6carts des deux courbes
dans Vintervalle des interſeCtions, :

Leffer de prendre des points de comparaiſon fort diflans, &tant done en general,
Vaccumuler dans Pintervalle de ces points les 6carts des Loix qui ſe trouyent dif-
ferentes, on gagnera beaucoup, dans les cas on Pon ne pourra pas decouvrir les
Loix elles-memes, a chercher des points de comparaiſon dans les moirdres
diſtances que puifſent comporter les .obſeryations particulisres auxquelles on
deſtinerales Meſures phyfiques, -

Ceſt ainſi que par hazard on a eu longtems des Thermomdtres de

mercure



Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 497
in which the difference of the progreſſions between theſe
two liquids in their dilatations by heat was not obſerved.
* Mr. dE REAUMUR'S Thermometer, one of the firſt to
 Whichone endeavoured toaflign fixed points, was too dif-
| ficult in its conſtruction for each Thermometer to be
. immediately graduated; and indeed the author himſelf
8 only uſed his method'in making flandards to-which the

E Thermometers intended for common uſes were after-
Z > wards compared. Abbe NoLLET, his diſciple, who for
5 Z aJong time gave the 707 for Thermometers in France
Z and in the Southern' countries, followed his maſter's
2 method, The only immediate point he marked upon

Z bis Thermometers was that of freezing; and he com-

2 pared them afterwards in; water of 30? of that ſcale in

EZ which the real interval between the freezing and: boiling
5 Z points ought to be divided into about 100% By this me-
E thod,

'= mercure et Jeſprit de vin on Von ne remarquoit pas les diffsrences de marche de
Z ces deux liquides, Je. 'Thermomttre de M* pz REAUMUs, Vundes premicrs
auxquels on ait tents de donner des points fixes, Etoit-trop difficile a conftruire,
pour gue chaque Thermometre pfit &re. gradue immediatement, Aufli Pauteur
 lui-meme nemployoit-il ſa methode qua faire des &talons, auxquels 1] compa-
* roit enſuite. les. /Thermometres. deftines aux uſages ordinaires, Mr I Abbe

NOLLET, ſon diſciple, qui pendant long tems @ donns leon pour les Thermo-

mtres, tant.en France ,que dans les pays meridionaux, ſuivit Ia methode de ſon
* maitre: il ne marquoit immediatement ſur ſes Thermometres, ,que le point de la
congalation; ct il les comparoit enſuite dans de Veau a 30? de cette echelle 1a,
93/100? environ, diyiſoient Vinteryalle reel de la congelation a Peau bouillante,

Vor, LXVII, Oooc Par


498 Mr. DE LUC 0

thod, and at that period in which natural philoſophy
was {till very inaccurate, one did not obſerve the dit-
ference between the progrefſions of ſpirits of wine and
quickfilver; andin faCt it was eaſy to miſtake them. T
have ſhewn it in ſpeaking of theſe Thermometers, and [
ſhall have occaſion to ſhew it more fully very ſoon. This doubtleſs was a defect, and a very conſiderable
one, whether we conſider that the Thermometer is in«
tended to indicate degrees of heat, both much larger and
much ſmaller than the interval between theſe 30%; or
that it is a moſt capital inſtrument in natural philoſophy,
and as fuch may be uſed in experiments where the leaſt
defets may have ſenſible conſequences.