Vitriol equal parts,

and Diſtil theſe. out of a Retort in a good Sand Fur-
nace, fo that the Sand continue red-hot for ſome hours,
for the Fire cannot be too great ; the Furnes will riſe of
a very deep red (colour, and will ſettle in the Receiver,
in the form of a Liquor, which muſt be carefully preſer-
ved from the Air ; this being the Spirit with which all

our



| C 203.)
our Experiments were made, which are referred to in the:
Catalogue. How: 7
To make the Common Spirit of |Nitre, you need:
only-to;mix five or ſix times as much Clay as you
take of” Nitre, and Diſtill. them *in a Retort, and you;
may obtain a ſtrong Spirit-of Nitre this way, eſpecially
if you dephlegm it,and redifie it ro: the beſt Advantage. With this. we have made an Experiment of Accenfſion
ſucceed ſometimes, but with great uncertainty ; but the
firſt, which I call the Compound Spirit. -of Nitre, is
only to be relyed-on.
% That Chymiſtry has been, very pregnant in. produ-
cing many good Phenomena. very Serviceable ro - the
Z better Explication of Natural Philoſophy, and alſo very
S uſeful. in Preparing Medicines for Curing Diſeaſes, the
© Learned /Men of this Age. do generally allow ; and; thar
5 Glauber, though a very: Chymiſt or Laborant, and no--
3 thing at all ot. a clear Philoſopher, has yet led on -the
= beſt of Chymiſts, not only to make'good Furnaces, but
Salſo other good Medicinal Preparations, I found the Mat-
3 ter of Fact the truer the more I-peruſed him. He hints
*at the way of making this: Compound Spirit of Nitre ,
Z and alſo the Compound Spirit of Salt, by Diſtilling them
5with Oyl of Vitriol, but after ſuch an Invidious and
= Anigmatical manner, that he obſcures it-all he can, and;
= leads/the Operator forward-and backward-on, purpoſe to
2 perplex-him.;. which indeed ; has had this good. Effect ,
= Thathe has put us; upon differing»ways/of Preparing
this Spirit,and making it much more Noble tlian the Au-
thor did himſelf, who yet:ſo-over-valued- ir,as to think-he-
had: found the greateſt Arcanwm in: the World, and ſet
this on the. top -of\ his Preparations, ftiled, iracrulum
Mundi , andthe other Salt muſt be called-$4b Mirabile ;
ro which he attributes Twenty Six ſuch extraordinary:!