EXPERIMENT LI. I took a large mattraſs, containing, when filled to
the middle of its neck, 132 ounces of water, Troy
weight ; the diameter of the cavity of the neck was
fix lines: having with a diamond marked the place
where the water ſtood in the neck of the mattrals,
I dropped into it a fingle piece. of purified nitre, the
weight of which was a-2600th part of the weight of
the water, and immediately obſerved that the water
was conliderably elevated in the tube: during the

ſolution


[328]

folution of the ſalt, the .water ſunk, near one-third of
its whole , eleyation ;,, but 'when;.the ſolution was
cntirely finiſhed, it, remained very ſenſibiy.raifed above
the mark: ſo, that,, even from, the experiment with
this inſtrument, we may. be afſured that water can-
not abſorb _.<... th, part of; its weight, of nitre,, with-
out being augmented in bulk, Mr. Eller, from-his
experiments, concludes, that eight ounces of water
will abſorb one drachm and a half;” or above a 4.2d
part of its weight of nitre ; and hence I ſuppoled
the, quantity of , water which, I, uſed, would. have
abforbed, above ſixteen, times as, much,-or! above 3
ounces ;. "whereas the event ſhewed that.it, could not
abſorb... of an, ounce, From. the. ſinking. of the
water during the ſolution, I was at firſt. inclined. to '
believe that ſome part at leaſt of the nitre was taken
into the pores of the water : in order.to ſee whether
this conjecture could be verified by fact, I made the
following experiment. EXPERIMENT II. I choſe two mattraſſes of unequal ſizes, contain-
ing quantities of water in the proportion, of 12 to 1,
the diameters of the necks being . equal: into the
largeſt I put ,,th part of the, water's weight of
nitre, and an equal quantity into.the ſmaller ; and I
obſerved that the water, as well before as after the
folution, was equally elevated in_them both: this
experiment was repeated, Now, if a given quantity
of water can abſorb into its pores, without being in=
creaſed in magnitude, any quantity of falt however
ſmall, it ſeems reaſonable to ſuppoſe that a quantity

containing


[ 329 ]

containing twelve times as many pores ſhould abſorb
twelve times as much, (ſince it is an allowed fa&t that
the minuteſt portion of a falt is uniformly diffuſed
through the largeſt quantity of water) and it might
conſequently be expected, that the water ſhould riſe
higher in the neck of the ſmaller matraſs than in

that of the larger, which is contrary to: the! experi-
ment,

ExeerRIMENT 111.