The arbitrary
constants introduced by the integration are determined by the known values of the
functions when #=0. These periodic functions are to be snbstituted for E, E, IT
and IT, wherever these quantities occur in the developments of r, », 8 and 7. 'The
four equations just mentioned are identical with those obtained by the method of the
variation of parameters for determining the eccentricities and longitudes of the
apses. It is worthy of remark, that in both methods the changes of the eccentricities
and of the longitudes of the apses which are due to the disturbances; are taken into
account in calculating the changes themselyes, so that the approximation does in
4B2


I

542 PROFESSOR CHALLIS ON THE PROBLEM OF THREE BODIES.

fact extend beyond the first power of the disturbing force, s0 far as it relates to these
two elements. If the approximation be made to include generally the 8quare of the disturbing
force, and the values of 7 and 0 in art. 16, and the like values of r' and 0, be nsed
for that purpose, terms may arise containing coefficients which bave 2 for a factor.
'These terms may be converted into periodic functions of the time by the application
of the principles exhibited above, but in that case the differential equations by which
E, E', IT and IT are found will be of the second order, and the periodic functions
will be more completely determined.

"The inferences (1), (2), (3) and (4) respecting the secular variations of the elements,

although obtained in a manner quite new, agree exactly with those deduced from

previous s0lations of the same problem.
18. Having now obtained the developments of r, 8, r' and 0, inclusive of both

periodic and secular inequalities, to an extent which is suflicient, for most of the appli-
cations of the Planetary Theory, I shall reserve for a future opportunity the investi-
gation of the inequalities in latitude, and sball then take occasion to Show in detail
how this method adapts itself to the determination of the motions of the moon.