There was every reason,
with these facts before us, to expect that the battery, which did not produce a current,
would not evince any degree of chemical decomposition. Recourse was, however,
had to the test of experiment ; and, instead of introducing the galvanometer, I snb-
stituted for it a small piece of bibulous paper, saturated with a soJution of iodide of
potassium ; the gold leaves of the electroscope diverged as before, but, however long
the duration of action, not the least indication of the liberation of iodine was per-
ceptible. The inference I make from this is, that no definite chemical action took
place in any cell of the battery, and consequently that the electric effects above
shown, and which are termed satic effects, take place before or independently of the
actual development of the chemical effects.

23, I am aware that, in some form or other, this fact has been acknowledged by the
most strenuous adyocates of the chemical theory. BzcquereLy thus adverts to it :—
*We must conclude, from all the electrical phenomena, that, in almost all cases, a che-
mical action has taken place; and hence we are led to believe that the latter is the cause
which exercises the greatest degree of influence over their production ; nevertheless,

* Experimental Researches, $ 283, #4 282, { $ 510. $ "Trait6 de I'Elect., vol. ii, p. 145 ; vol. v. p. 3. BEFORE AND AFTER COMPLETION OF THE VOLTAIC CIRCUIT. 45

in the present condition of science, we must not yet abandon Vorra's theory, since it
may very readily happen, that, at the contact of two bodies, a disengagement of elec-
tricity may take place, resulting from a commencement of chemical action between
these bodies.”

De 14 Rive*, who has laboured perhaps more than any of the continental philoso-
phers in advocating the chemical origin of yoltaic electricity, cannot but admit some
such similar qualification, as may be seen from the following extract from one of his
papers:—* The two theories between which philosophers are divided with respect to
the origin of voltaic electricity, are still the subject of lively controversy ; when we
are adyerting to the pile itself and to hydro-electric currents, we cannot deny the
superiority of the chemical theory ; the recent labours of Faravay have, moreover,
added powerful arguments in favour of this theory ; but it must be acknowledged
that it is not easy to defend it when we advert to electricity of tension developed in
the contact of two heterogeneous bodies, especially if the two bodies are solid.”

FarapayF, who has recently instituted a series of elaborate researches in support of
the chemical theory, writes thus of it :—< The theory assumes that the particles of the
di-electric (now an electrolyte) are, in the first instance, brought by ordinary induc-
tion into a polarized state, and raised to a certain degree of tension or intensity before
discharge commences, the inductive state being in fact a necessary preliminary to
discharge.” Again, © One point is, that different electrolytes or di-electrics require
different initial intensities for their decomposition. 'This may depend upon the
degree of polarization which the particles require before electrolytic discharge
commences }.”

Grove, in a recent communication to the Royal Society, in allusion to the action
of the gas battery, says, © If, indeed, the contact theory assume contact as the efficient
cause of yoltaic action, but admit that this can only be circulated by chemical action,
I xee little difference, save in the mere hypothetical expression, between the contact
and chemical theories; any conclusion which would flow from the one would like-
wise be deducible from the other; there is no observed sequence of time in the phe-
nomena, the contact or completion of the circuit and the electrolytical action are
synchronous.