Consequently had lost 0*13 grain for 0'4 cubic inch of oxygen. In this and all the preceding experiments the residual gases were unchanged in
quality, and in this experiment it appears that the action of the deutoxide of nitrogen
and the oxygen was perfectly unaffected by the phosphorus, the consumption of deut-
oxide of nitrogen being exactly the same in both batteries. In another experiment,
which I did not record on account of a minnte bubble of air having entered the
tubes containing the deutoxide, the phosphorus appeared to have exercised a retard-
ing influence on the voltaic combination of dentoxide of nitrogen and oxygen ; this I
attributed to a slight deposit of phosphorous acid upon the platinum, by which its
catalytic power was deteriorated.

(38.) It thus appears that the effect we have been examining, of the diffusion of


356 MR, GROVE ON THE GAS VOLTAIC BATTERY.

phosphorus in gas, is not due to any peculiarity of nitrogen, and is not peculiar to
any particular gas, as once believed ; but being in all probability common to all 'gases
which do not exercise a specific action on the phosphorus, it may be more properly
called a volatilization of phosphorus at ordinary temperatures than a solubility in
gas; the ordinary slow combustion of phosphorus in air is, in fact, a combustion of its
vapour. T incline to think that the inferiority of its vaporization in pure oxygen is
due to a protecting film being formed, and that the phenomenon is in some respects
analogous to the inactivity of iron in nitric acid.

(39.) Phosphorus in nitrogen was asociated with hydrogen in the gas battery to
ascertain their voltaic relation; the hydrogen was positive to the phosphorus, 4. e.
represented the zinc of an ordinary voltaic combination.

(40.) To realize the curious novelty of two non-conducting solids forming the
elements of a voltaic battery, and producing a continuous current, phosphorus s1s-
pended in nitrogen in one tube of a gas battery was associated with iodine in nitrogen
in the other; a very decided current was the result, which continued for months, the
nitrogen remaining unaltered in volume, but the liquid becoming gradually tinged
by the excess of iodine vapour. The following is the result of the experiment :—

Charged January 1, 1845, Examined May 17, 1845.