On this fossil I
cannot forbear to observe, that this extraordinary preservation of the soft de-
licate body of an animalcule invisible to the unassisted eye, through the innumerable

* The shell of this specimen was probably of the same species as that represented in fig. 6. DR. MANTELL ON FOSSIL FORAMINIFERA. 469

ages that must have elapsed since the deposition of the chalk in which it was en-
shrined, is a fact not less remarkable than the occurrence of the carcase of the Lena
Mammoth, in the frozen soil of Siberia.
| In another example (fig. 7), a series of sacs, held together by the connecting tube,
is uncoiled as it were, and extended in a longitudinal direction ; proving the flexible
nature of the original substance. On examining by reflected light, under the microscope, some pieces of chalk col-
lected from the stratum which yielded the fossils above-described, minute particles of
a brown colour may be obseryed scattered over the surface ; these I have no doubt
= are remains of the integuments of foraminifera ; for in one instance, three cells of the
'S S$hell of a Rotalia lined with a similar snbstance, were exposed. Muntilated Rotalize,
2 consisting of only four or five sacs (figs. 2, 3), and 8ometimes of but one (fig. 4), are
S common both in chalk and flint; and these invariably have a torn and collapsed
S appearance.
© The fossil organisms termed by Exrenser Xanthidia, which have long been known
Z in flint, and were formerly considered to be siliceons, have been shown by Mr.
2 Deaxe to occur in the chalk in a similar condition to the Rotalie ; an unequivocal
S proof of the flexible nature of the original (see fig. 1).
© That the correctness of the statements embodied in the preceding remarks may be
verified, I snbmit the specimens to the Royal Society for examination under the
2 microscope.
= I will only add, that if the explanation T have suggested of the facts described be
'> correct, and the fossils before us are the delicate soft parts of animalcules preserved
EZ in chalk and flint, in like manner as the bodies of mollusks occur as a carbonaceous
'& substance in the Wealden freshwater limestones—this discovery, though relating to
'= &ome of the minutest forms of existence, may yet prove an important element in
'S many of the most interesting speculations of the geologist ; for in strata in which
SZ No vestiges of shells, corals, or other dense organisms have been detected, the relics
= of countless myriads of beings may lie concealed®,

S * In confirmation of these views I may tate, that Dr.