I pour a few Drops of Water onthe Table, ta-
0g. up a ſmall Globule thereof with a Pin, which I'lay
| the hole 4. then removing the Pin, the Water will
main on the Aperture, in form. of an Hemiſpher, or
ſpeak with Opticians,. a Plano Convex lens.. But if I
ye a mind to: make a double Conyex of Water, I :
ruſt the Pin (which muſt be leſsthen the hole) through

hole, till the Water be entred therein ; then with .
awing the Pin Perpendicularly to the plane of - the
perture; the Water remains there in form of an Aques'
t double Convex /ens. Then that which I have a mind
{ke I take upon Pinor a piece of Glaſs, according
the Nature of- the Obje@ ; and taking up this natu- -
| Microſcope Kos: end B.. | movethe Obje& to and

'O, till itbe in t focus. thereof, and by this means 1 -
[ can;



can ſee Objedts little leſs diſtintly, then by Glas Mit!
croſcopes, eſpecially by Candle, which1 find much bet
ter then Day+light, 16 0

Experiment 3,” 'But 1 obſerved, that thoſe Trregulat®
Particles, which were'inherent in the Globules of Glaſs!
mentioned in the firſt Experiment, were ſeen diſtinRly 0
and prodigiouſly maghified, 'as was eafie, to imagine
both: from their nearneſs to the Eye, and that they di
not: hipder the Globules either by Day or Candle-light,
from appearing throughour Tranſparent, being fo mi
nute as-not-to be'diſcernable, except | held clole to th
Eye, asin time” of Obſervation, and not then neithe
if too! near: the light, but 'ar a Competent diſtand
they appeared as above-faid, I knew not well how a

that time to account for this ſtrange Phenomenon, thi

2n Objc& ſhould be placed' 6 far within the Focus of
Spherule, as 'to- be within the Glaſs, and yet ſeen d
ftin&tly to the Eye fo near it ; but ſince by matt
of fact, I found (it was ſo, I made this Inf
rence, and concluded, that if I conveyed a {mall G
bule! of Water to my Eye, and that there were ar
opacous: or le(3,) tranſparent Particles then the Wat
therein, I might ſee them diſtinly. 4
Experiment 4. Having by me a ſmall Bottle of
ter, which I knew to have in it fome of; thoſe Miny
infe&s, which the deſervedly famous Obſervator
Leewenhoek Diſcovered, by the help of Excelle
Microſcopes : "Having ſeen them with the comm
Glaſs Microſcopes, and with the firſt Aqaeous, as abo
mentioned, 1 poured a few Drops of this Water on! Table, and takiog a ſmall Portion thereof on a Ping!
kid ir on the end of a ſmall piece of Braſs Wire (th
lay: then by me) of about one'tenth of an Inch'Þ
ameter; I continued to lay on' two or three Portioj


A101, "W "$283 )
of Water, till there was formed ſomewhat more then
' an, Hemeſpherule of Water ;, then keeping the Wire
et, I applied it to my Eye, and ſtanding ata pro-
per diſtance from the light, I ſaw them and ſome other
Irregular Particles, as I had predid&ted, but moſt Enor-
mouſly Magnified ; for whereas they are ſcarce gif.
ernable by the Glaſs Microſcopes, or the firſt Aqueous,
& within the Globule, they appeared not much. diffe.
nt both-in their form, . nor leſs in Magaitude thea.
inary Pcas, They cannot wellbe ſeen by Day-light,
cept the Room-be Darkned, after the-mangner of the:
mous Dioptrical Experimeat, but moſt diſtinRly by
andle-light; they may. be very. well ſeen by the full:
; The Pin ſometimes takes up the Water round enough
ew its Objefts diſtin, ;
Ef he InſeQs I have as yet this way obſerved, are of
Fo ſorts, Globular and Eliptical ;,.