Thi

. Gnd Years, ever. fince. the... time of old Herodett
who, as ſome haye conceived, - gave the fir{t occaſion
its being miſtaken, which has been derived eyen to.0ut
own times ;, inalmuch as, many famous Botaniſigzo'
theſe latter Centuries, ſuſpected Antiquity to have bee
deceiv'd in the Hiſtory of this Bean; and, ſome were
bold. to aſſert, the Ancients, were fabulous in thein fe
counts of it,,, Thus | Belonjus, © AſPinas 1 | Camerariu

: r _ Dalechampe

ranthes


Han BS, ED
bampe, 'and Clufrus, concluded , that the Plint
{which the  Zgyptiavs' call Culcas, which is the Arum
Eg yptium\in'Pliny, muſt needs be the Faba Agypria of
zoſcorid; and\Theophr. However, this did not anſwer
eir Deſcription, ſince they could not-conceive any
2Plant within the Line of their Knowledge, to make (6
ear an approach to it ; both from the Affinity and:
und of.i ts Name in Colocaſia 3 as allo, the ancient
e of feeding upon'its Root, continued among, thoſe
ations of "/Zgypr,” Syria, Arabia and Africa, time.
;Zmemorial, where, *cis-faid, this Faba alſo was in uſe :
Sut the Fruit.or Nutswas their Food, andnot theRoots;
Ae Teeth» of- Time having inverted both Name and.

2 Now this Nymphza g/andifera of our Anthor does
zxaRtly anſwer ail the Notes of the firſt Deſeriber, 1
ran Theopbraſtu'; and proves, that he gave a' ratio-
mland true: Account of thisPlant, contrary to the ſu-
Aicions/of- Modern Botaniſts:  Djoſcorides indeed gives ,
ke account almoſt" in zorzdem oerbis ; and Pliny tip:
poſed to have borrowed from both, though he never
mes the latter, muſt be alike congruous in his Ac-
ne.
{Bur here Matthiolus was indeed to blame, when, ra- -
Ser then be thought ignorant of ſo celebrated a Plant
«this Zgyptian Bean (which otherwiſe he does well
dugh- diſtinguiſh from the Arum of that Countrey)
Lpropoled to the World a falſe and fictitious Icon,
ommodated to the\Deſcription from his own Imagi-.
lon and Fancy;'\but hath mightily faild id the ftru-
bare of- its-Fruit;''not conſidering how little it reſemb-
da Honeycomb. Guilandinus: will have it, that what
. here propos'd, was a kind of Arum,. that grows
quently in- many parts of Zzaly; though, as him--
affirms, Odeardus  ſhew'dit him at 7rent , with-
hi many -


» 149) ;
-many other rare Plants, which be brought out 'of
ria 2nd Zgypt. Tn this he hath been followed by
- cuna Lygduneuſis, Caſtor Purantes, they calling it, and
piQuring it for the Agyptian Bean: Lovicerus, as al(y.