Dated
Stockholm, June 9,,,1769, Tranſlated
from the French. Sim,

Read Dec, 21, AM more ſurprized that the times of

1769 the contacts, of Venus and the Sun's
limbs, obſerved here, by different. obſervers, with
different, inſtruments, jagree, ſo year together, than I
am at their difference ;. for the nearnefs to the ho-
rizon, \and the extraordinary - quantity of 'vapours
with which the atmoſphete was then loaded, not
only cauſed the limb of the Sun to. tremble and un-
dulate, but alſo gave itz/.if I may, ſo expreſs myſelf,
the form: of, a. large. faw,, the. enjinences being Ju-
minous andthe cavities black, which ſhifted places
like the waves of a tempeſtious ſea. There was no reaſon for fixing . the moment
of the: ingreſs, of Venus ſooner than ſhe had made
a, greater :cavity in the Jimb of the, Sun 'than the
depth, of the waves, or.: black notches; | and then
one might be very {ure of the. fact; but, certainly at
that time ſome, ſeconds muſt . have. been paſſed
from the beginning--of the, ingreſs. - Therefore, I

. : am


[405 ]

am very well perſuaded, that 8% 24 9” apparent
time,” which-I took for the beginning of the ingrels,
is four, five, or ſeven- ſeconds. too : late, 1 hoped
to ſee the internal contaCt 'withmore- certainty ;
but I'wasmiſtaken;z for I found-as great diflicul-
tics;there, 'though of another kind,; ..When-ljudged,
by means of the circular figure of the Sun's diſc, that
Venus ſhould be intirely within the' Sun, I could, not
yet ſee the luminous cuſps of the Sun join together be-
hind Venus, who, on the contrary, appeared to carry
the limb of the Sun- along with her, which! appeared
to bend towards Venus, leaving a black cavity in his
limb; and a moment aſter, when I thought I faw
the whole body of Venus in the Sun, a little black co-
lumn appeared-to' proceed-1from "Venus towards the
imaginary limb of the Sun, The whole of this phx-
nomenon was/certainly;.in my opinion, the effe& of
the tremors of the limbs of the Sun and Venus; but
1 took. 8) $1” 48” for 'the moment of the internal
contadt, when the thread of the Sun's light cloſed be-
hind Venus. *

The limbs of Venus were, at leaſt, as tremulous
and ill defined as thoſe of the Suri, | Sometimes Ve-
nus had black eminences, Which projected fo much
that they were not unlike a' pointed truffle.” The
firſt notch made by Venus in the Sun was not round,
but reſembled' an obtuſe angle, "The diameter of
Venus, which' was perpendicular to the Sun's limb,
appeared the greateſt while Venus was paſſing over
the Sun's limb; but after Venus had paſſed the'Sun's
limb, the fame diameter appeared the ſmalleſt ; fo that
Venus preſented herſelf in both theſe caſes under'an
oval form, but in contrary dire&ions, on
MOMS 10 Va Clouds


[1406+]

Clouds hindered us from obſerving the beginning
of the eclipſe of the Sun ; but I obſerved the end of
the eclipſe, at 10* 4/ 53/” apparent time, with an
achromatic-teleſcope of Dollond; of 10 feet, magni-
fying 96 times; the ſame teleſcope which I uſed in
obſerving the tranſit of Venus. The difference of
meridians between Stockholm and Upſal is'1' 40” of
time. |
T have the honour to be,
+with the greateſt friendſhip and eſteem,

1 OI
Your moſt obedient,

1 {humble ſervant,

B. Ferner.