In this case the two pencils deviate sufliciently from the axis to approximate to plane
polarized light, and thns the Nicol-prism causes the indistinctness to disappear at
each quarter of a revolution by stopping one of them alternately.

(11.) For an explanation of the general phenomena of the formation of bands under
the conditions specified, the simple interference-theory suffices. Of the homogeneous pencil going to form any one ray of the spectrum, that half
which passes through the thicker part of the prism is more retarded than that
through the thinner ; but uniformly, and in proportion to the difference of refraction,
throughout the spectrum. The plate of glass, however, having different indices for the several primary rays
from those of the medium, interrupts this uniformity, and causes the one part of the
pencil to be always retarded in an increasing ratio with respect to the other, through-
out the spectrum ; and as this difference of retardation amounts successively to an
odd or an even multiple of a half wave-length, the rays will be in diseordance or
accordance, or give a dark or bright band accordingly.

(12.) But to account for the different conditions which determine the number and


216 PROFESSOR POWELL ON A NEW CASE OF

character of the bands, and the limits of thickness, as well as which of the two
arrangements before described, will produce them, it is necessary to consider more
precisely the relative refractions of the plate and medium, or the amount and direc-
tion of the retardation ; and it is found that on such considerations we obtain an
expression which includes these conditions ;—the difference of sign corresponding to
the 40 arrangements: while it assigns the number of bands which will be formed be-
tween any two given rays, or throughout the whole spectrum, with a given thickness
of the plate.

(13.) In the comparison of theory and observation, the broad facts,—that bands
will be produced in the respective cases by the one or the other arrangement,—as
well as their general character, —show an entire agreement with theory. The more precise comparison of the number of bands formed throughout the
spectrum, or within certain definite spaces of it, though in some cases unayoidably
imperfect from the difficulty of distinguishing the bands, yet upon the whole gives
accordances as good as perhaps can be expected.

(14.) When plates of doubly-refracting crystals are employed, the calculation for
the extraordinary ray in particular directions in the crystal, becomes more complex,
involving the laws of crystalline refraction. In all cases a small error in the index causes a comparatively large difference in
the calculated number of bands.