This last figure
illustrates the important fact, that while the cells in one part of the surface of the
disk are $quare, others in close proximity with them may be oblong ; thus conducting
us to the extreme form of this type, represented in Plate VII. fig. 12.

52. The foregoing considerations seem to render it obvious, that the diversities in
the form of the superficial cells do not afford any ground whatever for the establish-
ment of a corresponding multiplicity of specific types, but that they must rank as
individual variations to which there is scarcely any definite limit. If the originals of
Plate VII. figs. 5, 7, 9, 12 and. 15, had happened to have presented themselves to the
Systematist without any of the connecting forms, he might have been pardoned for
describing them as distinct species characterised by well-marked differences in the
form and arrangement of their cells; but no such differentiation can be admitted in
the face of the fact, that these are only extreme examples of variations, which show
themselves in a minor degree between almost every two specimens brought into com-

parison, and even between the different parts of the same disk. Moreover, when it
is borne in mind, that the animal basis on which the calcareous skeleton is moulded


GENUS ORBITOLITES :—VARIATIONS IN SURFACE-MARKINGS, 217

is not a body of constant shape, provided with organs having a fixed relation one to
another, but is a mass of almost homogeneous sarcode, which in the living state is
continually undergoing changes of form, one part extending itself into psendopodia,
whilst another undergoes a corresponding contraction, a strong & priori improba-
bility is seen to exist, that, in animals of such organization, the form of the compo-
nent segments should possess that value as a specific character, which it can only
derive from constancy.

53. Besides those regular markings of the surface, which correspond to the divi-
sion of the interior into cells, a peculiar aspect is frequently given to it by the
deposit of calcareous thickenings, which are sometimes irregular, but which occa-

 Sionally present an approach to symmetry, 'The most remarkable example I have
Smet with, of this kind of addition, is delineated in Plate VII. fig. 11, in which it will
®be seen that the deposit has taken place in radial lines disposed with a certain
degree of regularity.