S TT is with much pleasure I lay before you the result of observations which have been
z made upon the tides in the Irish Sea, during the execution of the survey which has
2 been entrusted to my charge.
= Up to the period of these observations the set of the tides in the Irish Sea had The stream
= . . ey +, in the Irish
2 been greatly misunderstood, owing to the association of the turn of the stream with cy,me
= the rise and fall of the water on the shore; and it was generally understood that as bitherto mis-
£0 ; understood.

b= Holyhead was three hours later in its tides than places at the entrance of the channel,
= a vessel starting with the first of the flood would carry nine hours tide in her favour
S in her run up channel and vice versd. XZ This was an error sufficiently great in itself, but it was liable to be increased by
= an entire ignorance as to the time when a vessel would take any particular tide ; for
£ the times of high water by the shore were very various on different sides of the
B=] channel.
© The present inquiry, I am happy to inform you, has set these errors and doubts at
5 rest. The observations have shown that, notwithstanding the variety of times of
5 high water throughout the channel, the turn of the stream is simultaneous; that the Turn of the
Q northern and sonthern streams in both channels commence and end in all parts es 17
(practically speaking) at the same time, and that time happens to correspond with ds
the time of high and low water on the shore at Morecombe Bay ; an estuary rendered _—_ "n2
remarkable as being the point where the opposite tides coming round the extremities bannels.
of Ireland, finally meet. $0 that it is necessary only to know the times of high and Meeting of
low water at Morecombe Bay to determine the hour when the stream of either tide on
will commence or terminate; a fact which will, I am sure, be fully appreciated by
eyery person navigating the Irish Channel at night, or in thick weather. The chart of curves or lines of direction of the stream, Plate II., which accompa-
nies this report, will show at once the effect of the tide upon a vessel wherever sbe
may be placed in the channel, and especially direct ker where, with a beating wind,

MDCCCXLVIIL. P


106 CAPTAIN F.