75. Let me snbjoin such © pregnant instances,” as shall prove the importance of
each of the foregoing principles, from the result of the violation or neglect of it —
(1) 80 long as external conformation was alone regarded, and no account was
taken of internal organization, the Nautiloid Foraminifera were placed among
Cephalopods, and the Coralloid forms among Polypifera; to neither of which classes
have they any kind of relationship; (2) 80 long as developmental history was un-
studied, the Hydroid Zoophytes and the Medusoid Acalephe were considered as
entirely disconnected groups, belonging to two different Zoological classes, instead
of (as in reality) different states of the very same organisms ; (3) s0 long as reliance
is placed on the comparison of a few individual specimens only, without any account
being taken of the intermediate forms by which the more divergent types may be
connected, s0 long are species multiplied to a most unwarrantable excess, as is found
to be the case in almost every department of Zoology and Botany by those who
devote themselves to a more extended comparison ; thus, nineteen species have been
made from the common Potatoe, and many more from the Solanum nigrum ; 80,
multitudes of species have been instituted in various genera of Californian $hells,
by the late Mr. C. B. Apams, whose identity is established by a more extended
comparison of individuals (as will be shown in a Report which is being prepared at
the request of the British As8ociation, by my brother, the Rey. P. P. CareexTER) ;
in fact, wherever this test is conscientiously applied, its effect is to reduce the number
of reputed species, Sometimes in a _most remarkable degree*. (4) In like manner it
has been by comparing only a small number of specimens from remote geographical
provinces, and by neglecting the intermediate varieties that present themselves even
among sufliciently large collections from these, still more among specimens collected
from interyening regions, that not only numerous errors of detail have been com-
mitted, but general doctrines have been propounded, which the advance of Science
has proved to be utterly untenable. As an example of the former kind, may be cited
the facts mentioned by Dr. J. D. Hooks (op. cit.), that of the New Zealand varieties
of Oralis corniculata, one of the most widely-diffused and most variable Flowering
plants in the world, no less than seven or eight species have been made, neither of
them supposed to be identical with any belonging to the European Flora; whilst Pteris

* I am most glad to find my views on this point in accordance with those of Dr. Joszen D. Hooks (ﬆe
his * Introductory Exsay on the Flora of New Zealand,” $ 2), who has been led to the conviction, that instead
of affirming the existence of 100,000 species of known Plants, we ought not to reckon more than half that
number, »


GENUS ORBITOLITES :—CONCLUDING REMARKS, 229

aquilina has a different name in almost every country in the world.