P. P. CareexTER) ;
in fact, wherever this test is conscientiously applied, its effect is to reduce the number
of reputed species, Sometimes in a _most remarkable degree*. (4) In like manner it
has been by comparing only a small number of specimens from remote geographical
provinces, and by neglecting the intermediate varieties that present themselves even
among sufliciently large collections from these, still more among specimens collected
from interyening regions, that not only numerous errors of detail have been com-
mitted, but general doctrines have been propounded, which the advance of Science
has proved to be utterly untenable. As an example of the former kind, may be cited
the facts mentioned by Dr. J. D. Hooks (op. cit.), that of the New Zealand varieties
of Oralis corniculata, one of the most widely-diffused and most variable Flowering
plants in the world, no less than seven or eight species have been made, neither of
them supposed to be identical with any belonging to the European Flora; whilst Pteris

* I am most glad to find my views on this point in accordance with those of Dr. Joszen D. Hooks (ﬆe
his * Introductory Exsay on the Flora of New Zealand,” $ 2), who has been led to the conviction, that instead
of affirming the existence of 100,000 species of known Plants, we ought not to reckon more than half that
number, »


GENUS ORBITOLITES :—CONCLUDING REMARKS, 229

aquilina has a different name in almost every country in the world. It has been
through reliance on snch ignorant determinations, most of them proceeding on the
notion that © the plants (or animals) of newly-discovered, isolated, or little-yisited
localities must necessarily be new,” that the doctrine of the universal distinctness of
the species of the New World from those of the Old, and of those of the Southern
from those of the Northern Hemisphere, has attained a very wide currency amongst
Nataralists, and is still obstinately persisted-in by some, in defiance of ample evidence
to the contrary*. (5) Lastly, not only has the limitation of the comparison among
Fossil types, to a small number of individuals, led to the excessive multiplication of
species in the forms that are furnished by the same strata ; but the same habit of
grelying on minute differences, without attention to osculant characters, has given
Sib to that disposition to regard the species of successive formations as necessarily
2different, which is introducing the greatest confusion into geological and palzonto-
Zlogical determinations of every kind, How an extended comparison of individual
forms tends not only to reduce the number of reputed species, but to establish the
Seontinuity of the same specific types from one stratum to another, will be remarkably
Seen when the laborious researches of Dr, WrrGur of Cheltenham on the Cidarites of
Sthe Liassic and Oolitic formations sball have been made pablic.