FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XX11.)

the magneto-crystallic state ; but this state does not appear to be due to polarity,
and the bar does not convey more power through it than is conveyed onwards else-
where through an equal space in the magnetic field. Hence its directive force does
not increase in the same rapid degree as the directive force of the magnetic bar just
referred to.

2630. If then we take a bar which, like a prism of sulphate of iron, is magnetic,
and also magneerystallic, having the magneerystallic axis perpendicular to its length,
such a bar, properly suspended, ought to have an n distance of the poles, within
which the forces ought to be nearly in equilibrium ; whilst at a greater distance of
the poles, the magneerystallic force ought to predominate ; and at a lesser distance,
the magnetic force ought to have the adyantage ; simply, because the magnetic
force, in consequence of the true polarity of the molecules, grows up more rapidly
and diminishes more rapidly than the magneto-crystallic force.

2631, This view, also, is consistent with the fact that variation of the force of the
magnet does not affect the n distance (2618. 2619.); for, whether the force be
donbled or quadrupled, both the magnetic and magneto-crystallic forces are at the
same time doubled or quadrupled; and their proportion therefore remains the same.

2632. The raising or lowering of the crystal above or below the line of maximum
magnetic force is manifestly equivalent in principle to the separation of the magnetic
poles; and therefore should produce corresponding effects: and that is the case
(2617.). Besides that, when the crystal is raised above the level of the poles, such
resultants of magnetic force as pass through it, are no longer parallel to its length,
but more or less curved, s0 that they probably cannot act with the same amount of
power in throwing the whole crystal into a consistent polarized magnetic condition, as
if they were parallel to it : whereas, as respects the induction of the magneto-crystallic
condition, each of the particles appears to be affected independently of the others ; and,
therefore, any loss of an effect dependent upon joint action would not be felt here.

2633.