The insufficiency of either of these hypotheses, or of both
of them combined, to explain the phenomena of life, gave origin to a third, which
was undoubtedly more correct in its fundamental conception than either of its pre-
decessors had been ; the position assumed being, that the phenomena of each living
body proceed from a vital agency, or anima, peculiar to each organized structure,
and having nothing in common with chemical or mechanical principles. The
sect of the Vitalists, however, did not steer clear of the exclusiveness which had been
the great. fault of the chemists and physicists ; but, in looking at every action of
the living body as the immediate result of vital agency, claimed for that agency
much that is clearly attributable to the operation of chemical and physical forces. Among modern Physiologists there is a distinct recognition of the fact, that many
of the phenomena of living bodies may be placed in the same category with those
of inanimate matter, and that such are not otherwise affected by vital agency than
as this prepares or modifies the conditions under which they occur. But there is also
a distinet recognition of the fact, that living bodies present a large class of phenomena
which are altogether peculiar to them, and which can only be attributed to agencies
of which the inorganic world is altogether independent ; and hence has arisen the
notion of vital agency as the foundation of Physiological science, just as the notion
of affinity is the foundation of Chemistry, and that of mutual attraction of General
Physics. And putting aside all hypothetical considerations with regard” to the
abstract nature of that agency, Physiologists have been aiming to determine the laws

passing along them, of the size of the particles and the pores, the amount of retardation arising from friction
and other mechanical causes, while the doctrines of derivation, revulsion, lentor, obstruction, and resolution,
with others of an analogous kind, all founded upon mechanical principles, were the almost universal language
of both physicians and physiologists towards the close of the seventeenth century.”

* «The leading principle of the chemists,” says Dr, Bosrock (op. cit. p. 138), © was, that the living body is
8ubject to the same chemical laws with inanimate matter, and that all the phenomena of vitality may be explained
by the operation of these laws,” The chemical physicians of the seventeenth century held * that the operations
of the living body are all guided by chemical actions, of which one of the most important and the most universal
is fermentation.