The observations are illustrated by two plates. The first (tab, xviii.)
gives *a side view of the skull of the Sus Fthiopicus (half the natural size), to show
the situation and appearance of the large grinder, and the remains of the alveoli be-
longing to the fangs of the preceding one*.” The second (tab. xix.) gives a © side view
of the skull of the young Sus Athiopicus, to show the mode in which the grinders
come forward as the large one increases in size4.” This plate includes also a side
view and a transverse section of the crown of the large full-grown grinding tooth. The conclusions drawn from the facts given are, that the Sus Athiopicus resembles

the Elephant *in the whole number of grinding teeth belonging to each side of the
jaw being confined in a case of bone, s0 as to form one large grinding surface, and
the teeth being pushed forward from behind, instead of a second set being formed
immediately under the fangs of the first, as in other animals; which are peculiarities
not met with in any teeth hitherto described, except those of the Elephant$.” The grind-
ing teeth of the Sus Zthiopicus are described to be © four in number on each side of
the jaw” h;.... the fourth or last large tooth is considered to be a second set of teeth,
which, as it adyances forwards, pushes the other teeth before it ; . . . . © the most anterior
of these, as 800n as its body is worn away, has its fangs removed by absorption and
drops out: the same thing takes place with the second and third; and, in this way,
room is made for the large one to supply the place of all the others||.” The mode in
which they succeed one another is stated to be illustrated by the side view of the jaw
given in tab. xix., in which the fangs of the different teeth are exposed. I have shown in my *Odontography* ©, that the facts detailed in How's paper were
insuflicient to enable him to explain all the necessary circumstances respecting the
curious mode of dentition of the Wart-Hogs ; that other stages of dentition, unknown
to that author, had demonstrated a second sct of teeth formed under the fangs of s0me

* Philosophical 'Tranzactions, 1799, p. 256. + Ibid. p. 257. } Ibid. p. 247.

$ Ibid. p. 250, || Tbid. p. 250. © Vol. i. p. 554. MDCCCL, 3Q


482 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE DENTITION OF PHACOCHEGRUS,

of the first set, or above them in the upper jaw ; and also that the subsequent shed-
ding of the teeth in advance of the last large grinder was not in the order in which
they are pushed out in the Elephant, the Wart-Hogs deviating very remarkably from
that and all other quadrupeds in this respect.