When it is com-
Plete, that is to say, when there remains no trace of the planes
of the primitive rhomboid, the crystal becomes changed into a


260 Count de BouRxon's Description of

new rhomboid, which is much more obtuse than the former one.
(Fig. 28.) The rhombic planes have 114?, for the measure of
their obtuse angles; and 69*, for the measure of their acute
ones. The solid angle of the summit of the pyramid is very
nearly 150? go'; consequently, the angle formed by the meeting
of the bases is about 29* go'.*

There are, in Mr, GrEviLLE's collection, two oriental rubies
which exhibit this rhomboid completely formed ; its planes
are deeply striated, in the direction of the decrease; a circum-
stance which is very common in all planes that are the result
of a rapid decrease, or in which the edges of the laminz last
deposited, deviate considerably from the edges of those which
were already formed. There are also, in the same collection, two perfect hexaedral
prisms of corundum from the Carnatic, in which this modi-
fication shows itself by small isosceles triangular planes, si-
tuated upon three of the alternate solid angles of each extre-
mity. (Fig. 29.) These planes may easily be distinguished

* After having, in this substance, met with a secondary rhomboid that exactly agrees
with one of those belonging to calcareous spar, (although the planes which pro-
duce it are differently situated upon the primitive crystal,) it appeared to me yery
extraordinary to meet with a second, which had” exactly the same proportions as
another of the obtuse rhomboids of the abovementioned substance, In fact, there
exists in calcareous spar, a rhomboid much more obtuse than that which Rowe
pz LisLz named lenticular, (called equiaze by the Abbe Havy,) of which the
measures are exactly the same as those which have just been assigned to the rhomboid
of corundum ; but there is the following difference between them, viz. in calcareous
spar, this rhomboid is the result of a decrease along the edges of the pyramid
belonging to the primitive rhomboid; whereas, in corundum, it is the result of a
decrease at the angles which contribute to the formation of the solid angle of the
summit. This modification of calcareous spar has not yet been described ; but, indeed,
the same thing may be said of many other modifications of that substance.


the Corundum Stone, and its Varieties, &c. 261

from those belonging to the primitive rhomboid : first, by their
inclination, which is very different, as they make, at-their meet-
ing with the edges of the prism, an angle of 110, whereas the
others make an angle of 147* 3o'. Secondly, they are usually
very deeply striated; a circumstance which rarely occurs in the
others.