Olefiant gas, as usually prepared from
alcohol and sulphuric acid, contains a large quantity of sulphurous acid ; when chlo-
rine is brought in contact with this mixture of gases, two substances are formed,
chloro-sulphuric acid, SO, Cl, and the Dutchman's liquid, C, H, Cl,, Upon sulphu-
rous acid alone (in the circumstances under which the experiment is made) chlorine
has no action whatever, nor, according to REGnauur, upon olefiant gas, when both
gases are dry, and only in diffused daylight. The formation, therefore, of this body
is due to the polar division of the chlorine, just as the formation of sulphuric acid to
the polar division of the oxygen ; the olefiant gas being to the chlorine in the same
relation as the nitric oxide to the oxygen in the other experiments, 80 that we may
conceive the change to take place thus—

+ —=+ =
C, H, CICI SO,=C, H, Cl-+CISO,.
n= ELLIS |

This example is not open to those objections which, from the formation of the oxides
of nitrogen, might be raised to the other instance, for here the combinations mutually
determine each other. With water, the chloro-sulphuric acid decomposes with the
formation of sulphuric and hydrochloric acids ; but through this experiment we can
distinctly trace back the cause of the formation of the sulphuric acid, in this, as in
the more usual mode of its formation, to the polarization of the element ; and on
considering attentively the mode of the formation of chemical substances, it may be
seen that, the formation of a large class of compounds, among which are the oxides
of chlorine and iodine, is ever preceded by a similar fact.

3. It is well known that when a mixture of hydrogen and any oxide of nitrogen is
passed over heated spongy platinum, the oxide of nitrogen is decomposed and am-
monia and water formed. Were the hydrogen a compound substance, it would be
thought that the simultaneous formation of these substances was sufficiently explained,
by saying that it was a ease of double decomposition, and it is indeed the same phe-
nomenon ; thus—

+= + —
NO, H, H,=3HO+NH,,
| CREST |

the hydrogen being © nascent ” from itself.

* Annales de Chimie, 2nd Series, 1xix. p. 170, and Ixxi. p. 445.
+ See KunLmaxy, Lites Annalen, vol. xxix. p. 286,


766 MR.