The precious stones comprised under that deno-
mination, which are selected from the sands washed down by
the rivers of the island, and sold under the name of sand of Ceylon,
have never been brought to Europe in any kind of matrix, nor
has any account of their matrix ever been transmitted -to us,
Perhaps, indeed, no more information on this head could be pro-
cured on the spot, than was obtained by those naturalists who
sought for the origin of the sapphires, &c. found in the sands of
the small rivulet at Expailly, already spoken of. I may also
observe, that the great care taken to free the sand of Ceylon
from every substance, except such as, on account of their


the Corundum Stone, and its Varieties, &c. go5

hardness and their lustre, are considered as. of value in com-
merce, deprives us of all chance of obtaining that knowledge
respecting the matrix here treated of, which might otherwise be
acquired, from an attentive examination of the various substances
which jt is natural to suppose are brought down, with the sand,
by the streams. We shall, however, presently see, that one of

X those fortunate events by which nature sometimes rewards the
= labours of those who devote themselves to the study of her
S works, has presented us with some very interesting facts on this.
= subject.

£ In order to render as complete as possible, every information
I which is connected with the investigation of corundum in ge-
5 neral, and particularly to make known every thing I have
= been able to learn respecting this stone in its highest degree
E of perfection, I think it right to make some remarks on the
Z various substances with which it is accompanied, in the sand
2 sent to us from Ceylon; although I cannot undertake to assert
= positively, that these substances really accompany it, when in
Z its'matrix. E Spinelle. The first of these substances, and one which com-
£ poses more than nine parts in ten of the whole mass of the
V sand, is the spinelle ruby, now generally known by the name of
= spinelle.