Even at a very early period, when this left canal of Cuvier has scarcely begun to
shrink, its lower part is found, on cutting it open (figs. 2, 4), to be a distinct vascular
tube, applied to and connected with the back of the future left auricle, but not opening

into that cavity; whilst its orifice maintains its connection with the right portion of
* All the figures in this Plate, excepting fig. 11, are enlarged to two diameters. OF THE GREAT ANTERIOR VEINS, 145

the yet undivided auricle, and is drawn with it, in the general movement of the heart,
over to the right side, This being premised, it is easy to follow the changes which the
lower pervious portion of the leſt canal of Cuvigr undergoes, after the complete occlu-
sion of its upper part, represented now by the opake streak (fig. 9, {) on the wall of
the left auricle, and by the minute fold of the pericardium (») already described, For
a time, the lower part of this canal persists as a conical pouch (Plate III. figs. 5, 6, c') ;
but 8ubsequently (Plate IV. figs. 7, 8, from an embryo, 24 inches long) this conical
venous channel becomes elongated; its upper part forms the oblique vein already
mentioned, whilst its lower part (s) pursues its course to the right along the auriculo-
ventricular furrow. The coronary vein (g), properly s0 called, is now seen to end,
< not in the right auricle itself, but in this venous channel, falling into its under side at
San acute angle, at a short distance from its termination in the auricle; Still later, in
2a foetus 5 inches long, from vertex to coccyx, the same facts are as plainly obseryed
= (figs. 9, 10) ; and on cutting open the veins at this period, a narrow oblique venous
= channel (0), tapering to a point as it ascends to the left along the back of the auricle,
may be traced from the point of entrance of the true coronary vein (g) upwards to
S the opake streak (7), seen on the wall of the auricle; whilst below the entrance of the
Z coronary vein, the venous channel becomes dilated (s) as it passes to the right, re-
= ceives several cardiac veins, including generally the middle cardiac, and ends in the
Z lower part of the right auricle, close to the interauricular septum, by a somewhat,
.2 contracted orifice, which is guarded by a rudimentary valve. This wider lower por-
Z tion of the persistent venous channel can even now be recognized, in all respects, as
Sthe coronary Sinus, and the valve beginning to form at its auricular orifice is the
= Thebesian valve. The opening of the true coronary vein into it is marked by a
S'sharply-ridged margin, but as yet there is no valve there.
g As development advances to the full period of foetal life (fig. 11), the proper
& coronary vein (g), and the coronary sinus (s), become gradually more continuous in
6 direction than heretofore, but the difference between them can be easily discerned,
5 even externally.