The latter is
& more particularly the case with those processes of the vertebra which are developed
= in relation to the attachment and force of the muscles; and which, being connected
= with particular modes and media of motion, become eminently significative of
S the habits and affinities of the species. The consideration and comparison of these
= processes, therefore, most of which have received no names in Human Anatomy, are
Z essential to a right determination of the habits and affinities of the Megatherium ;
> and in order to make intelligible the terms in which the yertebral peculiarities of that
= great extinct animal will be described, I propose first to illustrate them by giving a
& comparative survey of the principal modifications of the exogenous processes in the

= vertebrate series.

= The * exogenous” processes of a vertebra are those which grow out of the pre-
$ viously ossified parts, and are 80 classified and named in contradistinction from the
S *antogenous' parts or elements of a yertebra which are developed from their own
E proper centres of ossification*.

= In the sixth cervical vertebra, for example, of the human foetus, the part which

SogMMERRING, the most exact and classical author on Anthropotomy, calls © radix
prior seu antica processus transversi vertebra,” is developed from a separate centre
and for some time continues to be a distinct bar of bone; whilst the part called
< radix postica processus transversi yertebrze,” grows out of the base of the © radix
arcus posterioris,” as SoxMMERRING denominates the autogenous part which I have
called ©neurapophysis: and from this element, or from the arch formed by its
coalesence with its fellow, when it constitutes the © arcus posterior vertebra” of
SoEMMERRING, other processes grow out ; as, for example, the © processus oþliqui seu

* On the Plesiosaurus macrocephalus, Geological Tranzactions, vol, v, 2nd series, p. 518, 1838.
+ De Corporis Humani Fabricd, 8vo. 1794, tom. i. pp. 229, 241. 3 Ib, $ Ib. p. 236.
4z2


720 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE MEGATHERIUM,

articulares superiores et inferiores.” These different processes offer many modifica-
tions of 8ize and shape, and a certain change of position and direction, when traced
through the vertebrate series; in the course of which comparison the anatomist meets
with other exogenous processes, traceable with equal certainty from species to Species
and determinable under all their various modifications: whence it becomes necessary
for the purpose of brief and clear description to indicate each of such Processes by a
single definite name, capable of being formed into an adjective to express the pro-
perties or appendages of such processes*,

The convenience of such terms will be admitted by the Human Anatomist who
considers that the processes in question have, as yet, received no distinct substantive
names in Anthropotomy ; and who knows, from Osteogeny, how vaguely some of the
descriptive terms, as * transverse process,” for example, are applied to parts obviously
very different in their nature and constitution. The * transverse proces” of a dorsal
vertebra is a simple exogenous growth from the neurapophysis, commonly affording
an articular surface for a rib ; the © transverse process* of a sacral yertebra-þ is an
autogenous part, which continues distinct long after birth ; the © transverse process?
of a cervical vertebra is partly exogenous, partly antogenous, consisting in fact of
two distinct, processes and a rudimental rib, but distinguished in Anthropotomy from
other transyerse processes only by © being perforated.”

But if such common phrase of © transverse process, with a note of distinction, as
that *it is perforated in the cervical vertebrze,” be suflicient for the exigencies and
applications of Human Anatomy, it becomes quite inadequate and often totally inap-
plicable to the answerable parts in the lower animals: in the Crocodile, for example,
the cervical rib is much more developed and maintains constantly a free articulation
by a © head” with a well-developed inferior transverse process (f radix antica,” Soz.),
and by a * tubercle” with an equally distinct superior transverse process (* radix pos-
tica,' SognM.). In the Wombat (Plate XLIV. fig. 12), the Hare, the Pig, and most other
quadrupeds, the transverse process of the lumbar vertebra? consists of an exogenous
base and an antogenous apex, this apex being, as Tags and Muiter} have
shown, a rudimental rib like the autogenous part of the transverse process in the
neck. In entering upon the descriptions of the extinct species of the Reptilian classh, the
most varied, extraordinary and heteroclite, as Cuyigs justly remarks, of any of the

* This I have done for some years past in my Lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons, in the * Catalogue
of the Human and Comparative Osteology in the Museum of the College,” and in some of my published me-
moirs: as e.g.