Hist., vol. v. p. 554.

+ © This instrument [wet bulb] simply indicates the conditions of the air of the place where it is situated ;
at 100 feet aboye it the conditions may be very different.” —GLarsnzr's Hygrometrical Tables, p. 16, edition
of 1847,

{ The capacity of air to hold water in solution, or in a state of vapour, diminishes with the tempe-
rature,


352 LIEUT.-COLONEL SYKES'S DISCUSSION OF METEOROLOGICAL

moisture $btractively, even were the tension of vapour satisfactorily determined for
the whole pressure. The barometer falls with increasing saturation of the atmosphere
with moisture, indicating the displacement of comparatively dry air by dilated vapour,
the density of which is less than that of drier air, and a certain amount of pressure
is taken off the barometer and the mercury falls on account of the diminished density
and elasticity of humid air ; but as s0on as this vapour is condensed into rain the drier
air resumes its ordinary density and elasticity, and the mercury mounts again. If
the vapour came simply as an addition to the drier air, the density and pressure of the
compound should increase, and the barometer should rise ; but this is contrary to
fact. I would therefore not apply a subtractive correction for that vapour, which
has already acted directly upon the barometer in diminishing pressure by displacing
denser air. The object of applying any corrections at all to the barometer, on ac-
count of moisture in the atmosphere, is stated to be to © obtain from them the
pressure of the atmosphere of dry air*;” but as such a state of the air is a physical
impossibility as long as there is a drop of water upon the earth to be vaporized, as
evaporation goes on at all temperatures, it may be asked, what practical advantage
can be obtained from any such determination? and the more 80, may the question
be asked, when experimenters are not in accord with respect to the numerical values
of the tension of vapour at different temperatures to be applied as corrections,

On the whole it appears very desirable that to piRECT MEANS recourse should always
be had, if possible, for the determination of the dew-point, to DantsLLs hygrometer,
or to Reenavuur's condensing bygrometer ; and short of this, that persevering compa-
risons should be made for years, in extended ranges of temperature, depression and
pres\ure, and at different elevations, to obtain a more trustworthy wet bulb formula,
or an unquestionable series of factors.