The Tables indicate that as the stations approximate towards each other,
and lie nearer to the apex of the triangular-formed peninsula of India, excepting at
Cape Comorin, s0 do they respectively benefit in an increasing ratio from the mon-
s0ons of either coast. For instance, Madras derives considerable advantage from
the Malabar monsoon in the months of July, August and September, while Cochin,
Quilon, Allepy and Trevandrum, on the Malabar coast, and the mountain stations
of Uttray Mullay, Kotergherry and Dodabetta, lying between the Malabar and Coro-
mandel coasts, are liberally supplied from the N.E. monsoon in the months of October,
November and December, while Mercara and Mahabuleshwur, similarly situated as
Uttray Mullay and Dodabetta, but in a higher latitude, and nearly in the same me-
ridian, derive scarcely any benefit from the N.E. monsoon ; indeed, north of the
eighteenth parallel of latitude, that is to say of Poona, the rain-fall of the N.E. mon-
s00n does not extend, at least as far as the returns I have been able to collect afford
me the means of judging. Another feature of the Table indicates that the S.W. mon-
s0on does not burst simultaneously along the whole line of the Malabar coast, but
would appear to creep up slowly from Allepy towards Bombay, commencing in
fact on the coast of Travancore partly in April, but absolutely in May, and rarely,
if ever, commencing in Bombay before the first week in June; the S.W. monsoon
therefore on the coast of 'Travancore and Malabar, precedes the time of its occur-
rence at Bombay by a month at least. I had thought that along the coast the
quantity of rain diminished as the latitude increased, and the large annual fall at
Allepy and Cochin, compared with the fall at Bombay, seemed to justify the opinion ;
but the fall at Cape Comorin, Trevandrum and Quilon, does not justify the opinion ;

and supposing that any such law held good on the Malabar coast, it plainly has not

any existence on the Coromandel coast. It is certain, however, that as the tropic is

approached on the western side of India, the annual fall of rain sensibly diminishes

along the coasts of Kattywar and Cutch ; and at the mouths of the Indus, not only is

there no trace of the S.W. monsoon, but Lower Scinde would appear to resemble those

Singular tracts on the earth, the Deserts of Sahara and Gobi, and the coast of Chili,

denominated *© rainless.” I regret not having been enabled to get more than one re-


360 LIEUT.-COLONEL SYKES'S DISCUSSION OF METEOROLOGICAL

gular meteorological register from the military cantonment at Kurrachee, situated near
one of the mouths of the Indus; but the scanty information supplied to me affords
sufficient proof that if Lower Scinde does not belong absolntely to the rainless districts,
it approaches very nearly to them.