It might be expected that this variation in the intensity would be greatest at
those parts of the globe over which the sun passes vertically, or nearly 80; but that
may depend upon two circumstances at least ; first, whether the difference in the day

* On the means adopted for determining the Absolute Values, Secular Change, and Annual Variation of the

Magnetic Force, Philosophical Transactions, 1850, p. 201. ATMOSPHERIC MAGNETISM—DIURNAL VARIATION—DIRECTION. 57

and night temperature is greater there than at other places, because the extent of the
variation may be dependent in part upon that difference; and next, whether the
amount of effect to be expected is the same for the same difference in number of de-
grees of temperature at every part of the scale (2886.), If the conducting power of
oxygen (2860.) should be found by future experimental measurements (2960.) to in-
crease in a greater proportion for a fall of a given number of degrees at lower tem-
perature than at high ones (including the effect of contraction for that fall (2861.)),
then it may be that parts more distant from the sun will be more affected than those
under it; or if the contrary be the case, less affected than otherwise would be ex-
pected.

2895. With regard to the daily variations, as respects the direction of the lines of
terrestrial magnetic force, or the inclination and declination of the magnetic needle,
the principles of the changes that may be expected to occur have been already referred
to (2879.); and it remains for me to compare these expectations with a few simple
cases of observation, in snuch a general manner as will tend to show whether the
direction of action is, both in theory and fact, the same; and whether there is any
probability that the effect has been assigned to its true cause ; for this purpose I will
confine myself entirely at present to a part of the daily variation, namely, the effect
of the sun and air as the luminary arrives at and passes over the meridian.

2896. Profiting by the last volume which has issned from the powerful mind and
careful hands of Colonel Sapixg*, I will take the case of Hobarton. The observatory
there is in latitude 42* 52'5 south, and longitude 147* 275 east of Greenwich.