Yet, although analogous conclusions are thus drawn from
these two formulz, the formulz themselves are not analogous, as the former (that of
F 51) is applicable to all distributions, whether solenoidal or not, and shows precisely
how the resultant magnetic action will in general depend on the interior distribution
besides the normal magnetization near the surface, according to the deviation from

(VII.)

* Tt may be proved that the force derived from a potential having the 8ame expression (VII.) (1.) as for ex-
ternal points, is, for any internal point, the force at a point within an infinitely small crevass perpendicular to
the lines of magnetization ; as it is easily shown that the differential coefficients of 47(p) are the rectangular
components of the force at such a point due to the free contrary polarities on the two sides of the crevass.


280 PROF. W. THOMSON ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF MAGNETISM.

being s0lenoidal which it presents ; while the formulze of Q 76. merely expresses a fact
with reference to lamellar distributions, and being only applicable to lamellar distribu-
tions, do not indicate the effect of a deviation from being lamellar, in a distribution
of a general form. Certain considerations regarding the comparison between common
magnets and electro-magnets, suggested by Amezre's theorem that the magnetic
action of a closed galyanic circuit is the same as that of a © magnetic shell” (as de-
fined in $ 67.) of any form having its edge coincident with the circuit, led me to a
synthetical investigation of a distribation of galvanism through the interior and at
the surface of a magnet, magnetized in any arbitrary manner, from which I deduced
formulz, for the resultant force at any external or internal point, giving the desired
indication regarding effect of a deviation from being lamellar, on expressions which,
for Jamellar distributions, depend solely on the tangential component of magnetiza-
tion at points infinitely near the surface. These galvanic elements throughout the
body, from the action of which the resultant force at any external point is com-
pounded, produce effects which are not separately expressible by means of a poten-
tial, and therefore, although of course when the three components X, Y, Z of the total
resultant force at any point (x, y, 2) have been obtained, they will be found to be
such that Xde+Ydy+Zdz is a complete differential, the separate infinitely small ele-
ments of which these forces are compounded by integration with reference to the
elements of the magnet, do not separately satisfy such a condition.