The part adjoining the western shore of the glacier is in-
deed highly crevassed, and therefore unfit for this experiment ; but at the distance of
fifty or sixty yards from the moraine it becomes remarkably flat and compact for a
space of about seventy yards in width, and several hundred yards in length, throughont
which space there is not a single open crevasse. Now this compact area of ice pre-
sents the veined structure in a nearly longitudinal direction, with a degree of delicacy
and distinctness not to be found in any other part of this glacier (as I had already re-
marked in my Travels, p. 159), and it contains no other trace of a system of longitn-
dinal fissures or lines of separation of any kind, which could render mechanically
possible the distortion of this flat compact surface of 80 great an extent. Now I have
always observed that the veined structure near the side of a glacier is best developed
where the ice is least crevassed, or the continuity of the mass most perfect ; a fact
stated and referred to its true canse from the first date of my speculations on the origin
of the blue veins, in the following words :—© The veined structure invariably tends to
disappear when a glacier becomes 80 crevassed as to lose horizontal cohesion, as when
it is divided into pyramidal masses. Now this imwediately follows from our theory ;


164 PROFESSOR FORBES ON THE VISCOUS THEORY OF GLACIER MOTION.

for as soon as lateral cohesion is destroyed, any determinate inequality of motion ceases,
each mass moves singly, and the structure disappears very gradually *.” Now the ice
at the point in question is the compacted ice which has just passed round the great
promontory of Trelaporte, having been rent by numberless chasms, and which is con-
solidated by pressure in the bay in question, whilst the centre of the glacier being Still
on the steep is deeply crevassed. The structure of the even ice is continuously
striped with a regularity comparable. to that of the finest chalcedony for a distance
of ome hundred feet. "This structure must have been produced on the $spot, since no
sach perfect structure exists higher up, and if it did, it maust have retained all the
marks of dislocation due to the formation and reconsolidation of the fissares, which
are s numerous and wide as to render the passage of the glacier quite impracticable
if we follow the same strip of ice up towards the promontory of "PTrelaporte.