From hence he tells the Abbot Nicaiſe ,
+ that they have done unexpreſſible' things under that
Name ( ſince Abraham's time) which cannot be con-
Z tained in a Letter ; but continues to give this Relation.
= They afterwards made themſelves Matters of Afia Minor,
© Thrace, Greece, and the Iſland of Crete, and then of all
© Europe, and if I be not miſtaken, part of Mauritania;
S during their ſtay in Phrygia, Greece, and Iſland of Crete,
'2 their Princes lived in thole Provinces for near two Cen-
Z turies, the Names of four amongſt them ( which An-
= riquity hath preſerv'd) I ſhall here ſhew you. The
© firſt is Acorn, his Son is called Ophzon, by the Poets,
> Uranes , he was Father to Saturn, whom the Titans or
= Celtes call Satdorn in their Tongue, and from him was
© born the famous Jupiter ; his true Name with them be.
= ing Favs, or Jou; trom whence is formed the Ancient
EZ Latins Jovs : But he was called fo before they gave
E him the Name of Fupiter, as in ſome caſes he (till re-
S tains the Name of Jovis, inſtead of Fupitris; neither
S Parro, nor any other Latin, can give a reaſon for this,
S the thing ſerms ſo ſtrange to them ; alſo amongſt the
EZ Greeks Plato himſelf is ignorant, as appears by his be-
R lief of the Etimology they gave; for which Erender a
© plain and caſie Reaſon from the Celticks, By the three
© Jaſt of their Princes (from whom I derive this my Dif.
- courſe) you will be informed of their well-known An.

tiquity ; They had very Potent Kings amonglt them,
$ bearing

AJ.


(2738) |
bearing that Title, & whoſe Names were Satury and Ju!
piter, doing great things, though with a mixture of ©
Vices and Diſorders towards their Friends. They were”
called Gods of the Firſt Order, by which may be ſeen:
their Brutality, and what they did to inveigle and de.
ceive Men; I fay, the firſt Greeks and Ancient Latiys, ©
are the Abbot's words.” Youwill ſee, Sir, their AQions,
as well good as bad, deſcribed in, this Fifth Book, bur *
it ſhall be free from all ridiculous Fables and Fictions of f
the Poets, for the whole Narration ſhall be Autheotick,

do and bear moſt Ancient Truth, In the Concluſion of p
iz this Paragraph the Abbot ſeems to be tranſported, and

5 cannot expreſs whether it was a Viſion or Antiquity he q
= had been delineating, and returns again to the 7jtay or
Z Celtic Princes, who Reigned a long time in Greece arid |
= Jraly, where Saturn, being perlecuted by his own Sons,
5 fled for Refuge. Their Language was fo mixed with,
Z Greek, that it became almoſt Zolick, which is conſo= 7
Z nant to the Ancient Latin, |
Z Then he tells the AZbe de Nicaiſe, how it will ſur- ©
> prize him, when he relates ſome words which agree
'S with the Ce/tic, eſpecially in Numbers; for Example. S The Celtic ſay dec, Ten, and the Greek Siyg ; the ©
= Celtic call Four pedwar, and the Aolians Titrezes ; the *
= Celtic lay undec, Eleven, dawdec, Twelve, Oc. and the .