The general results of this set of experiments, compared with those of the last Set,
Q, appear also to show that the non-production of embryos in the whole of that set,—
after Segmentation had taken place in several of the experiments, as in Nos. 1, 2, and
especially No. 3, with solutions of the caustic potass ;—and still further, No. 7 with
the nitrate, —may fairly be attributed to some defect in the seminal fluid or in the ova ;
Since, if such were not the cause, and the failure had been due either to the chemical
effect of the media on the ova, or to the moderate temperature of the atmosphere
(49* Fau.) at the time of experiment, —segmentation of the yelk would hardly have
taken place. This supposition appears to be the more likely, when we recollect that
in the Set Q, and in that et only, the impregnating fluid was obtained from the testes,
compressed and broken down in water,—that the eggs were of doubtful maturity,—
and that this was the only set of experiments in which no embryos were ultimately
produced; although, I may now mention, that greater care was taken to ensure a
favourable result than in most of these investigations,—the ova being remoyed at the
end of twenty hours to an average temperature of 60* Fanr.,—were retained in flat
sballow dishes,—and had the water changed daily. Both sets, however, Q and R,
seem to prove that the act of impregnation, as evidenced in the fact of the yelk be-
coming segmented, must take place, or be commenced very rapidly ; and, apparently,
almost at the instant of contact of the spermatozoon with the coverings of the ovum ;
as seems to be shown in the fact, that segmentation took place in many of the ova
when the space of time between the application of the spermatozoon, and that of the
solution,—which previous observation (p. 225) showed was sufficient to decompose it
immediately,—was scarcely more than one or #wo $econds. Thus in Q 4, and R 1, it
must have commenced in the interval of one second, even when the strong s0lution
was used ; and in Q 2 and R 2 with the same solution in #0 Seconds. When the
weaker solution was used, a greater number of ova became affected in similar spaces
of time, as in Q2 and 3.