This is a large field of faQs. and ſpeculations, not un=,
intereſting in itſelf, but on which I muſt not dwell : what I
have ſaid of thoſe cauſes is ſufficient to account for the anoma»
lies,to which, more or leſs, every bygrometer is ſabje&t, But?
whereas in the/ſips, thoſe anomalies create only ſome irregulari-;
ties in the obſervations, without any deceiving conſequence in
reſpe& of the /aws of moiſture, they may deceive when they hap»
pen to interfere in the critical part of the march of ſome threads;
for inſtance, if, by a certain accidental arrangement of the con=
ſituent parts in a ſip of whalebone, there happens to be ſome
2 tenths


Hygrometry, 405
* tenths of a degree difference, from one experiment to another,
- on its point of extreme moiſture, that anomaly cannot be of any
conſequence on the determination of what muſt be conſidered as
that ſtate in the medium; but if it happens to the hair, which,
in approaching extreme moiſture, has but very ſmall motions,
it may reverſe thoſe which it had had naturally (as I have ob-
& ſerved it ſometimes) and become a cauſe of deception. S 84, 1 have now explained, how mere accidental circum-

[(
S ſtances have been the cauſe of a difference in the ideas that M. EDE SAusSURE and I had formed on what is to be under-
| E ſtood by extreme moiſture in every caſe; and I am going to
illuſtrate the whole of that ſubje& by a ſingular fact. An
Z hygrometer made with a box thread, or a thin faſcicle of
the fibres of that wood, being placed in open air, next to a
' hair hygrometer, or to moſt of the other inſtruments of that
= ſort, moves in a contrary way from them; but we may lay
S aſide that circumſtance, by ſuppoſing, that the #umbers, marked
ES on the dial of the firſt, are increaſing in _the oppoſite direQion
& from thoſe of the other inſtruments, Let us then ſuppoſe, that
Z ſome experimental philoſopher had choſen the box thread for
& his bygrometer ; with him I ſhould have fallen into no contro-
yerſy on the point of exzreme moiſture ; for,. either under the
E moift veſſel, or in any other caſe approaching extreme moiſture,
& his hygrometer would have moved like mine. But the box
thread, at approaching extreme dryneſs, firſt relents much its
* pace, then becomes /tationory, and afterwards retrograde ; by
* which property, with the concourſe of ſome accidental circum-
© ſtances as have happened in M. pz SavussuRE's experiments,
© the very ſame queſtions that I have examined with fo much
© labour in reſpe&t of extreme moiſture, only becauſe of the hair
} hygrometer, would have been tranſported to the point of ex-
; rreme


406 Mr. vs Luc on
treme dryneſs; which, however, till now, has created no'
doubt.
$5.