New days make new diſcoveries 3
eſpecially to ſuch as are in any meaſure curious (! ſhalll ſay)!
or ingenious and inguilitive ; as few enough-amongt us}
here in England are, unleſs ated and animated by ſome.
profit or advantage to themſelves by the diſcovery z how!
conſiderable and remarkable ſoever it may be otherwiſe,
Tis true, New Lights are now adays much cried up : but!
as in matters (moſtly) of Religion z ſo (it you mark L }


# ©

; (883) |

by whom? But ſuch, asnot.fo much for Conſcience, as
tor lucre-ſake, broach and intrude themupon a credulous
* giddy fort of people, whoſe applauſe they firſt catch, and '
| then their purſes. But leaving theſe ſpiritual Mountebanks,
* and their counterfeit ware, New Lights only in pretence;
- I ſhall here acquaint you with d piece of New Light in-
+ deed, but of another kind, preſented and held forth upon
+ No account or ajmat all of profit or advantage to the pub-
Qiſher ; (bur if he miſtakes not) of good uſe and profit (;n
Fpoint of knowledge) unto'others,Clearned Antiquaries and
SNatnralifts, as 1 ſuppoſe) of more Skill, infight and judg- -
ment, ( if they. pleaſe to employ them on this occation )
Jn things ſo rare and extraordinary, than he can, doth, or
;zwould be thought to pretend urito, Well, to the matter
Sf fact then,

Z Mr Jobr Soxner, in the month of September, 1668, ſink-
ang a Well at a new Houle of his in Charthar, a Village .
*AoOut 3 miles from Canterbury, towards Aſaford, on a ſhelv=
30g ground, or bankſide, within 12 rods of the River,run-

Hits from thence to Canterbury, and ſo to Sandwich H aven;
nd digging for that purpoſe about ſeventeen foot deep,
Ehirough gravelly'and chalky ground, and two foot into . Eve Springs ; there met with, took and turned up a parcel
pf ſtrange and monſtrous Bones, ſome whole, ſome broken,
Zogcthcr with four Tecth, perfe& and ſound, but in a
manner petrified, and turned into Stone z, weighing (cach
Jooth) ſomething above half a pound, and almoſt as big
Elome of theth) as'a mans fiſt, Cheek-Teeth, or Grind-
rs, - as to the form, they are all, not much unlike, but for
the bigneſs, the Grinders of a Man. 'And whereas I ſaid,
moſt as big, ſome of then, as'a mans fiſt + it brings to my
remembrance what I havercad in Ludovicws Vives, of ſuch
"Tooth, but alittle bigger ; (dens molaris pugno major ;
> ſaith : thatis, a Cheek-Tooth, bigger 'than a fi) which
mas (hewed to him for one of $t Coriftopher's Teeth, and
yas kept in a Church that bare his name; which whether:
bk, Cceccc he

.



.
( 884 )
he believed or not I know-not: but contradi&t it he doth
not I am ſure ; neither he, nor his learned companion,
whom he doth name there. Juſt ſuch anorher Tooth of
the bigneſs, he ſaith, of an ordinary fiſt, was ſeen by Acoſta, >
(a very creditable Author) in the Indies, digged out of the |
ground, in one of their houſes there, with many other -
Bones z which put together repreſented a Man, of a for-
midable, or as he ſpeaketh, deformed bigneſs ; or, greatneſs :
as he judged of it.