O. Tuſta-

mond, , Surgeon. Read May 28, N. the 'year 1751, TI preſented to. the
17695 ] Royal Society an obſervation of a rup-
2 ture, which had two hernial facs "at preſent, 1 have
# the hotiour to ſend them the hiſtory of another kind
S of rupture, with a double fac, -much more fallacious
E and dangerous thin the former, ſince Þ found myle.f
deceived by it, after the experience of forty years, ,
E James Philip Chiquet, aged 651years, (of the Pariſh
S of St, Vivien at Rouen,” was admitted into our hoſpi-
S tal on the 24th. of January 19674 ta bog
= The account,  which'he! gave 10f: himſelf, + was,
that he had been accuſtomed to a rupture, which he
> hd not been able to reduce. or a fortnight} paſty and,
"that figee-eight days he had been: ſeized with, a-vo-
- Miting, and' was "incapable of "raking any ;nouriſh-
p n wy 6% WY 90% Soo afar 16 neat:

2 IA
*Drtoy


[294 ]

ment, Upon examination, the tumor was ſoft, eſ-
pecially at the upper part towards the ring, which
ſeemed to be ſo free and diſengaged, that the finger
with the integuments. might be puſhed under it :
the large cord, which came down to it, was flat, ſoft,
and appeared to be compoſed entirely of the ſper-
matic veſſels enlarged,

The extremity of the ſwelling, which was of the
Gze of a large orange, was evidently a very tranſpa- -
rent hydrocele ; at the baſis of which ſome hard
points. were to be felt, which I thought to be
ſchirrous tumors. I concluded, therefore, that his |
complaint was an} old | hernia, ſucceeded by a far- |
cocele- and. arr hydrocele, and that the inteſtine was
at that time returned. 1 imagined that the vomitings,
which were not frequent, might be cauſed. by ſome
other diſorder, - perhaps: by the progreſs which the
farcocele might have made in the cavity of the ab- |
domen; and Ialſo thought that the weak and almoſt
dying ſtate he appeared to be in, was a prognoſtic of
the fatal manner in which thoſe caſes uſually. termi-
nate; for his ſtrength was fo far exhauſted, that he +
expired in the following night.

1 was very deſirous of examining the caſe, having *
been always induced to ſuſpe&, from the vomitings,
and the flatneſs, ſoftneſs, and. fize of what paſſed -
through” the ring, that there was a deſcent of the
inteſtine. :

See Tas. XIII.