Nevertheless the mystery was by
no means cleared up; rather, we were prepared to expect something of the same sort

* Edinburgh Transactions, vol. xii. p. 542.

+ Eighth Report, —Tranzactions of the Sections, p. 10.

t By this, I merely mean that, to take a particular example, the exhibition of a blue light by a solution of
sulphate of quinine appeared to be a phenomenon of the same nature as the exhibition of ared light by a solution
of the green colouring matter of leaves, although the latter does not manifest the same singular concentration
as the former in the neighbourhood of the surface by which the light enters ; and the latter had already been
observed by Sir David Bzewsr7zs, and the phenomenon designated as internal dispersion. I make this remark
because Sir David Buzwsrer has applied this same term to another class of phenomena which are totally
different.


; PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE CHANGE OF REFRANGIBILITY OF LIGHT. 465

in other instances of internal dispersion. In fact, the mystery consisted, not in the
narrowness of the stratum from which most of the blue light came, but in the cir-
cumstance that it was possible for light, by passing across such a stratum, to be -
deprived of the power of producing the same effect again, without, apparently, being
altered in any other respect.

4. To one who regards light as a subtle and mysterious agent, of which the laws
indeed are in a good measure known to us, but respecting the nature of which we are
utterly ignorant, the phenomenon might seem merely to make another striking
addition to the modes of decomposition with which we were already acquainted. But in the mind of one who regards the theory of undulations as being for light what

= the theory of universal gravitation is for the motions of the heavenly bodies, it was
S calculated to excite a much more lively interest, Whatever difficulty there might be
Zin explaining how the effect was produced, we ought at least to be able to say what
Sthe effect was that had been produced ; wherein, for example, epipolized light differed
= from light which had not undergone that modification.