Of neutral Salts formed with Flowers of Benzoin,
and Salt of Amber,

ExPERIMENTs I. and II,

With the flowers of benzoin. Moſt modern chemiſts haye looked upon the gum
benzoin as a refinous ſubſtance, which bears the
ſame analogy to the vegetable reſins, as the ſucci-
num or amber does to the foflil bitumens; and
they have eſteemed the flowers of benzoin to be. an
acid falt, mixed with an oily and a ſmall propor-
tion of an earthy matter ; but have brought no
proof of its being ſo,

1. In, order to aſcertain this fact, I put two
drams: and a half of the flowers of. benzoin into
ſome water, and then dropped into it by degrees a
ſolution of the foffil alkali; every drop raiſed an
ebullition or efferveſcence, in the ſame manner as
when any common alkaline falt is thrown into an

Tttz2 acid


{ 508 ]
acid "liquor, | T- continued” adding the alkaline lye
til} all ebullition ceaſed, andthe flowers were fully
taturated and-difſolved ; after which T filtered the
tiquor, and evaporated it tilla/pellicle began to ap-
pear, and then ſet it in a-cool-place all night, and
next/morning I had a' fine pure tranſparent neutral
falt, ſuch asis repreſented by figure-21;- It adhered
to the china baſon in form of a faline cruſt, which I
removed; and on looking thorough it in the light,
it ſeemed to be compoſed of an infinite number of
very ſmall cryſtals; above this lay, in many places,
a number of cryſtals of the figure. of ſmall oblong
parallelograms, 'as thoſe at 4, 5. But from the
greater part of the ſurface of the cruſt there aroſe
a number of very fine thin delicate plates of irregu-
lar figures, ſtanding on one edge; ſomewere ſquares,
others parallelograms, and others had more ſides,
the general appearance of which was ſuch as is to
be'ſeen at the letters a, a, a, &c. This ſalt, when firſt made, appeared as tranſpa-
rent and clear as glauber ſalt, ornitre ; but on be-
ing expoſed to the air,” became very ſoon white and
mealy. 1149

In the time of the evaporation of this falt, a
{aline white .mealy cruſt roſe every where on the
fides of the china baſon in which the operation was
performed, and even came over fo far, as to cover its
whole outlide.