Whereas in truth the Society, as a body, never did
intereſt themſelves any further in their publication,
than by occaſionally recommending the revival of
them to ſome of their ſecretaries, when, from the par-
ticular circumſtances of their affairs, the Tranſaf7ons
had happened for any length of time to be intermitted,
And this ſeems principally to have been done with a
view to fatisfy the public, that their uſual meetings
were then continued for the improvement of know-
ledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their
firſt inſtitution by the Royal Charters, and which they
have ever ſince ſteadily purſued. But the Society being of late years greatly inlarged,
and their communications more numerous, it was
thought adviſeable, that a Committee of their Mem-
bers ſhould be appointed to reconſider the papers read
before them, and ſele& out of them ſuch, as they

a2 ſhould


ADVERTISEMENT,

ſhould judge moſt proper for publication in the future
Tranſa#ions; which was accordingly done-upon the
26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice
are, and will continue to be, the importance or ſingu-
larity of the ſubjects, or the advantageous manner of
treating them without pretending to anſwer for the
certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reaſonings,
contained in the ſeveral papers ſo publiſhed, which
muſt Kill reſt on the credit or judgment of their re-
ſpedtive authors,

It is likewiſe neceſſary on this occaſion to remark,
that it is an eſtabliſhed rule of the Society, to which
they will always adhere, never to give their opinion,
as.a body, upon any ſubject, either of nature or art,
that comes before them. And therefore the thanks,
which are frequently propoſed from the chair, to be
given. to. the authors of ſuch papers, as are read at
their accuſtomed meetings, or to the perſons, through
whoſe hands they receive them, are to be conſidered
in-no other light, than as a matter of civility, in re-
turn. for the. reſpe& ſhewn to the Society by thoſe
communications. The like alſo is to be faid with
regard to the ſeveral projects, inyentions, and curio-
ſities. of various kinds, which are often exhibited to
the Society ;. the authors whereof, or thoſe who ex-
hibit-them, frequently: take the liberty to report, and
even to certify in the public news-papers, that they
have met. with, the, higheſt applauſe and approbation,

And:therefore it is, hoped, that no regard will here-
\»after. be: paid to; ſuch. reports,, and public notices ;
which.in ſome inſtances have, been too lightly cre-
dited, to the dilhonour of the Society,

C O N-