By. a, like | computation we ſhall find, »that the
diſtance, jat; which the-Sun, wofild: afford us-as much
light, as We. receiye from. Jupiter, is not leſs than
46000 times, his., preſent diſtance, and his whole
parallax,/ in; that. caſe, upon,,the , diameter of the
carth's orbit, would. not be more than nine ſeconds;
the light of Jupiter and. Saturn, as ſeen from the
Earth, being in the ratio of about 22 to 1, when they
are both in oppoſition, and ſuppoſing them to reflect
equally -in, proportion to the whole of the light that
falls, upon them. hs)

But if Jupiter and Saturn, inſtead of refleQing the
whole of, the light, that falls upon! them, ſhould-in
fact reflect, only a part of it, as for example, only'a
fourth or ſixth (and this may. very poſſibly be the
caſe), we. muſt then increaſe the diſtances computed
above, in the. proportion of 2 or 2.2.to-1, to make
the Sun's light no more than-equal to theirs ; and his
parallax would. be leſs, in the fame proportion, than
thoſe, already mentioned ?. | ye :

Upon the, ſuppoſition then, that the fixed ſtars are
of the ſame magnitude and brightneſs with the Sun,
it .is,, no. wonder, .that. their /parallax ſhould have
hitherto eſcaped obſervation, ſince, if; thisis|the caſe,
it.could hardly amount to, two ſeconds, and'probably

» The light, which we. receive from the full Moon (according
to Monſieur Bouguer's experiments in the work aboye-mentioned),,
is offly''a/ 300000th' part of that which we'receive from the Sun, _

whereas it ought! to amount 40 no leſsthan a 4590h part'of it; *
according/to; the. principles, which we baye;made-uſe of'in com<"
puting the,quantity of light derived from, Jupiter and Satura/3/fo/)
that'the Moon, as appears from theſe experiments, refle&s no:more
than between, a ſixth, and a, ſeventh part, of the light, that Falls.

not


[37]

not more. 'than | one in Sirins' himſelf ;/thoughhe

- Had been placed in the pole® of the'efliptic;” and'in

©
A

thoſe, that appear much leſs Tuminous, ſuch'for'ex-
ample as draconis, which is only of the third magni=
tude, it could hardly be”expected to be' ſenfible with
fuch inſtruments as have hitherto been uſed in ſearch
of it: Qua
| We: have aſſumed the magnitude” of the fixed
ſtars,” as well as'their brightneſs, to be equal to thoſe
of the: ſun ;/it is however probable, that there may
be a very great difference amongſt them 'in' both
theſe reſpetts; and how ,much ſoever we may there-
fore be wide'of the truth, in attempting to'fix the
diſtance of | particular ſtars'from this reaſoning, | yet
there is a very great /probability, that their mean
diſtances, ſettled by this method, will not be much
- out, ſome exceeding and ſome falling ſhort of it,
And perhaps the” conſideration, that a'ſtar[muſt be a
. thouland "times /as great, c@teris paribus, to appear
equally bright, if it 1s placed at ten times the diſtance,
may ſerve to make it probable, that the limits of the
errors, which” we''are likely to commit; in judging
by fuch'a rule, are not fo great' as we'might other-
wiſe-imaginesthem to be, D339 ONIC
\With"regard to''the- difference there may be in the
native brightpeſs" of" different ſtars, though it is pro-
- bably very. confiderable,” yet T'thitik" we cat hardly
» ſuppoſe, that it is equal to ,thcir difference in. magni-
"tude, at leaſt. if we except thoſe, whichare ſubje&-to-

© © certain changes, and/-whichfor that-reaſor- we" may

- fuppoſe to be luminous'in ſie" parts of "thUFTurfaces

21 > The latitude of Sirtvs beingonly 39? 33, bis parallax will;be,.,
#3 little leſs than two thirds of the whole parallax,
3 only.


[ 238 ]
only. * In other inſtances. we may perhaps judge in
ſome degree; of| the native- brightneſ(s' of diffrent
ſtars with refſpe& to one another : by | their colour ;
thoſe, which afford the whitelt light, being probably
the moſt luminous ?.

z We have at preſent no means of judging of the comparative
brightneſs of the Sun and; of the fixed ſtars, in proportion to their
reſpeQve ſizes, excepting from the compariſon of the Sun's bright-
neſs with that of our common fires; but the Sur's light exceeds the
light of our brighteſt fires in ſo very great a proportion, (viz. of ſome
thouſands to one) that we want ſome middle terms to be able to
form/any analogy, which might ſerve to carry us farther. We
find however in general, that thoſe fires, which produce the
whiteft light, are much the brighteſt, and that the 'Sun, which
produces a whiter light than any fires we commonly make, vaſtly
exceeds them all in brightneſs ;_ it is _not therefore improbable,
from this general analogy, that thoſe ſtars, which exceed the Sun
in the whiteneſs of their light, may alſo exceed him in their native
brightneſs; now this is the caſe with regard to! many of them z
and, on the contrary, there are ſome that-are of aredder.colour. If however it ſhould hereafter be found, that any ,of the ſtars
bave others - revolving about them (for no ſatellites ſhining by a
borrowed- light could poflibly be viſible), we ſhould then haye-the
means of diſcorering the proportion between the light 'of-the
Sun, and the light of thoſe ftars, relatively. to/.their, reſpeQive
quantities of macter; for in this caſe, the times of the revolutions,
and the greateſt apparent clongations of thoſe ſtars, that revolved
about the others as ſatellites, being known, the relation between
the apparent diameters and the- denſities of [the: central” ſtars
would be given, whatever was their diſtance from us : and the
actual quantity of matter which they contained would be known,

whenever their diſtance was known, being greater or leſs in the
proportion of' the cube of that diſtance, - Hence, ſuppoſing them
to be of the ſame denſity with the Sun, the proportion. of the
brightneſs -of their ſurfaces, compared, with. that ,of the Sun,
would be known from the compariſon of the whole of the light

'- which" we' receive from them, with that which we receive from
the Sun'z but, if they ſhould happen; to be either of greater or

© Jeſs denfity 'than the Sun, the whole'of  their- light -not being.
ane ny


Y

[uv]

© [i

[ 239]

© As far then as we can gueſs at the parallax of the
fixed ſtars from the principles above Jaid down, -we
-may reaſonably. expe, that it ſhould be exceedingly
ſmall even in thoſe of the firſt magnitude; -yet,
beſides the probability, that ſome of them may be
*either leſs; orvlefs- luminous than the Sun, it is-not fo
{mill.as to leave us altogether without hopes, that we
ſome time or other be able to diſcover it in ſome
of them ; for I think it is not impraCticable to con-
ftru& inſtruments, capable of diſtinguiſhing even to
the” 2oth part of a ſecond; provided the air will
-admit of that degree of exadtneſs; but ſuch inftru-
«ments muſt be- upon a plan a good deal different
"from thoſe hitherto made uſe of, as they would other-
- wiſe be not only vaſtly too expenſive, but alfo much

too great and unweildy to be of any uſe.