II, p. 21,

+ Geneſis, ch, viii. 3—5.

bottom


[ 57 ]

bottom of the then. ſea (the preſent continents), at
once as high or higher than what was before dry Jand,
mult in a very ſhort time have drowned and over-
whelmed the  antediluyian earth, by pouring out the
waters upon it; and it is alſo evident, that for ſome
time the bottom of the ſea, ſo raiſed, would continue
covered with the waters, which till the vaſt agitation
into which they were flung ſubſided, would continue
flowing backwards and forwards. But, by degrees,
and very ealily within the time mentioned in Scrip-
ture, the water would drain off from all the higher
parts,1and leave the new land quite dry, and in the
ſtate we now find it, with rata. of ſhells, and fand,
and ſtones, and other bodies, lying juſt as the ſea had
by accident many ages before placed them: Whereas,
were the deluge occaſioned: only. by an addition of
water ſufficient to raiſe the ſurface of the ſea higher
than the land. and mountains, in that caſe, it 15 -1m-
poſſible to/imagine- any. means, at all conſiſtent with
the courſe and. laws of nature, by which ſuch an
immenſe body of water could. be evaporated or con-
veyed away.inſo ſhort a ſpace of time. And belides,
in that caſe, the ſhells, &c; flung upon the land by the
concuflion of the waters, and ſubfiding there within fo
ſhort-a-ſpace of time, would rather be found lying
according to their ſpecific gravities: a fact which Dr. Woodward: ſuppoled certain, but, which 1s by no
means true. - Nor indeed, according to the conjectures
here advanced, is it at all neceflary,that.it ſhould be; fo. For, as Limagine the ſhells and other. matine bodies,
which are now! found. on, various parts of the-dry land,
to bave been placed there gradually during a ſucceſſion
of ages, whilſt it was the bottom of the ſea yo1t will

; PLZ follow,


£

[52]
follow, that they muſt be found juſt as the ſea, by its
waſhings and motion, laid them; which would of
courſe fir{h- waſh many of them together, and then
wath gravel, or ſand, or clay, or other ſubſtances over
them ; after which, more ſhells or other bodies would
be depoſited, and then more ſtones or grave], &c.
according to the nature of the ſoil.