The Royal Society, for the pro-
 matement of Natural, and Experimental Knowledge, being 4
little after Tuſtitnted and Founded by that Curious Prince, and
meeting at Greſham Colledge, 1 made a Preſent of my Tables
to the Repoſitory»
= L
2 ]. Evelyn.
= . Theſe * Figures are cloſely Drawn after the Original” #, 1h 5
*= Schemes, and I am apt to flatter my ſelf they will be
>acceptable to the Inquiſitive, It is ſome ſatisfaCtion that
S I find the Arteries here (0 agreeable to a Figure which I
Z Drew and Publiſhed not long ſince, from the Arteries of a
= PFetws Injected with Was, But this Figure of the Peins
& differs ſo much from any extant, as would incline one to
© ſuſpect all of the ſubje& hitherto publiſhed are Fictitious, *
S not excepting even thoſe of Veſalizs. But firſt of the Ar-
(S teries. | ; . ;
Z” That the Arteries are the Velſels which convey Blood
& from the Heart. to all parts of the Body, is well known 5
= and we ſee by - Fig, the 1ſt that the common praftice of
£ Nature in diſtributing theſe Veſſels, to ſupply the parts
Z with Blood, is from the next adjacent Trunk, till their
'$ Aſcending and Deſcending Trunks become Conical, 25 well
| 25 their collateral Branches ; Not that all the Trunks and
5 Ramiſications of 4rieries are Unitorm, and become Coni-
We cal in the ſame manner 5 nor do all of Them pals direttly
© to the parts to which They convey Blood ; nor do all parts
receive Arteries from their neighbouring Trunks,
- The Trunks of the Carotid, Vertebral aud Splenich Arte-
ries are not ouly Contorted in their progreſs, in the Adalt 3
but the Djameters of their bores are variouſly. D:lte in -
divers parts of Them, eſpecially where Thez are Contorted 3
. »Tetttttt 2 but



( 1180 )

but as theſe Dilatations of their Trunks are caus'd by the
reſiſtance the Blood meets with at thoſe Angles of InfletFion ;, ©
ſo thoſe Emlargements of them afterwards contribute to re- |
tard the protruſion of the Blood to the Extremities of thoſe *
Arteries : Rence it is, That as. the Arteries of the Fetas
are not: Contorted, in ſuch Acute Angles as in fall grown |
Bodies, ſo their Trunks are more.