In the Campanularic, besides the bodies of obvious medusoid structure which have
been noticed by 80 many observers to, escape fromthe capsule and then swim freely
away, and those of less completely developed; though still obvious medusoid structure
which remain attached at the month of the capsule, others are commonly seen in the

* The medusoids of the marine Tubuloriade are, during the early.stages of their development, contained in
a delicate external sac which afterwards disappears. This is the homologue of the external inyestment of the

reproductive capsules of Cordylophora and the marine Tubulariade. DR AELMAN' ON THE ANATOMY /AND- PHYSIOLOGY OF, CORDYLOPHORA. 379

interior of 'the- eapsule clustering round: the, central, axis, and. described by yarious
naturalists as eggs: In these-80-called eggs, however, there may be detected a medu-
s0id/structure quite as mmanifest as/in the ovigerous'sacs of the, marine Tubulariadea ;
each/of them'is/in fact a fixed Medusa: developing' within, it, true,ova which possess
the germinal vesicle and; germinal'spot, and present, the phenomenon of yelk-cleavage,
and after a time-escape/as locomotive ciliated embryos. , It-is probable however that
in-some/cases the' production of spermatozow instead of ova is the true office. of these
bodies. In Sertularia argentea I have found the axis developed in the interior of [the cap-
sule into u/ body of very obvious medusoid conformation, In this, body the medusoid
stracture has experienced/an advance over that of the reproductiye.sacs of the Tubu-
lariade ; both mouth and disc are-open, and four unbranched. gastro- vascular canals
are present, but it-is/ permanently fixed, no, marginal tentacula, are developed, nor
could I observe the least motion of the disc/ corresponding; to the systole and diastole
of the: medusoids of the Tubulariade and the Campanularice.,, It is, 8upported on a
short'stem, which springs from the bottom of the capsule, and is directly continuous
with its stomach.' In this stem' the ova, originate, and appear to escape from, it into, the
Stomach of the medusoid, to be discharged from the mouth into an external delicate
vesicle, where they are retained during sabsequent_ stages/ of their development. If the views now taken be correct, the reproductive capsules of Cordylophora, and
those of the marine Tubulariadce, as well as the, parts immediately, concerned iw the
sexual reproduction of the Sertulariade, must be regarded; as distinct zooids*, pre-
senting/a'more'or less degraded type of medusoid structureÞ.