In confirmation of this view, it will be seen presently that
these observations give far more satisfactory results when employed without any
reference to the simultaneous observations at Geneva and the Great St. Bernard ; and
also in the above Table we may notice that, after crossing the Bonhomme, in those
cases where the heights determined from the two fixed stations differ from one
another to any considerable amount, that obtained by reference to the Great St.
Bernard generally approximates more nearly to the height as previously determined
than the other, obtained by a comparison with the more distant station. The numbers in the tenth column which are the sums of the two values, the height
above Geneva and the depression below the Great St. Bernard, as determined by ob-
servation, $hould, supposing both theory and observations to be perfect, give the con-
stant value 6836, which is the difference of height of those two stations ; but this
difference will yary when determined by means of each pair of barometric observa-
tions, the standard yalue 6836 being the mean of a very considerable number, Now
it is very evident that were it not for that term in the formula which involves the
correction for the expansion of the air, the sum of the above values would give the
difference of altitude, however erroneous the intermediate observation might be: for
calling b', b” and 5” the three boiling-points, we should have

548(b'—Þ)—24D +548(b"—6")+24D=548(5'—8"),
The observation, therefore, of the external temperature at the intermediate station
becomes the means of rendering the accordance of the sums of the component alti-
tudes with the whole height between Geneva and the Great St. Bernard, as deter-
mined in each case, a test of the correctness of the observation of the boiling tempe-
rature. We may in fact, by equating the formula for the whole height with the sum

* All who have traversed the Pass of the Bonhomme are aware that in crossing to the south, upon Chapiu,
the tract rises considerably after passing what ought to be and, I believe, is considered the ** Col,” viz. the point
from which a view of the mountains of the Turentaise is first obtained ; this point is marked by a cross, larger
than usual on most passes, and than any of the numerous others on this pass, This cross I believe to be the
« Croix du Bonhomme” of Dz Savssurs, and it was at its base the observation above referred to was made,

+ See note, p. 131,

MDCCCXLVI. Ss


128 MR. J. R. CHRISTIE ON THE USE OF THE BAROMETRIC

of those expressing the two component heights, arrive at an expression for the inter-
mediate boiling-point in terms of the atmospheric temperatures at the three stations
and the upper and lower boiling-points; such an expression is
23.