But 1 think we -may: be fure-
that one purpoſe for which air was deſigned, is. the
carrying off that moiſture,” and other” perſpirable
matter, which cotſtantly exhales from the lungs. Now as air loſes nothing of its elaſticity, by paſſing
through the lungs, it-will {till continue fit for ſuc
purpoſes, in the animal economy, as may be anſwer-
ed by the alternate expanſion and contraQtion of the
lungs in reſpiration. |And, therefore, T believe that
air is rendered unfit for® reſpiration, chiefly: by being.
ſaturated with''that moiſtare, and other” perſpirable
matter, which it -meets -with in” the lungs, "and
thereby lofing its power of-difſolving, and carrying
off any more of that kind-of matter, which will then
continually inereafe and clog the lungs; fo that an
animal incloſed in ſuch air Will die, perhaps ſome-
what in the ſame manner, though, not ſo quickly. as
if 'it had/been drowned, "5111411
Does it not ſeem"probable'that, in the conſtant
and quick evaporation. of moiſtare from the lungs,
ſome degree of cold may be produced, as it is in
other



(e373 ]
other evaporations,which,, together with, the freſh air,
taken-in, may/ſerye/to cool-the lungs, and, the blood.
paſſing through/them *?.,, 1, 4 yo
* Az air, even when incorporated with water, does not loſe

its elaſticity, I took it for granted, 'that it would not become
I leſs elaſtic by paſling through the/Jungs of an/animal. But being

ba told, that the contrary opinion was! held-by, ſome, who ſuppoſed, |
= that-air, having paſſed through the lungs of an anima}, became
© unfit for reſpiration by loſing its elaſticity, 1 reſolved to try how
5 the fact was, by the following experiment,” Tn a receiver eight
in] inches diameter, and twelve inches high, ;having under it-a ſoft,
= piece of oyled leather, I included a pretty large chicken, and tied
'S the receiver cloſe down to the table ; through a hole in the, top

of the receiver went a glaſs tube, open at both ends, cemented”
round the hole with wax, the lower end was immerſed in water
(tinged blue)/ which ſtood "in! a glaſs under (the; receiver, | In
about an hour after the chicken was included, it grew very much
diſtreſſed, gaped, wide, ,and, breathed with great difficulty, -and

- in half an hour more ,it ſeemed" almoſt ready 'to expire; "the
inſide of the receiver was then covered! with'moiſture; which in
ſome places ran down/in'drops: [Now if, the-rincluded:/{air had
loſt-any of its elaſticity by-paſing-through the lungs; of this ani-
mal, it could not have prefled fo ſtrongly on the water in the
gla's.as it did at firſt, and then the external air would have
preſſed through the tube, and appeared coming 'up through/the
water in bubbles ; -butino ſuch) thing happened, for | as ſoon as
the receiver was tied down, the water.in the/tube roſe about one
fifth.of an inch above. the water in, the glaſs, and ſo continued
during the whole time of the experiment, except that it roſe
and fell near one tenth of an inch every time the chicken breath+
ed; and theſe vibrations of the- water/\in-the |tube,/ I; obſerved
grew lower, and; moved; /through. a, greater. ſpace towards, the
"latter end, of the time; which, ſhewed that ,the chicken then
took in more air every time it breathed than it did at firſt.” Aſter
thines had ſtood this abgye-an/ hotir'and'a half,'.and thoſe ! who
faw the experiment were convinced thatitheyincluded/ air, had; not
loſt any. of its/claſticity, [though grown quite unfit for reſpira-
#* tion, the animal being ready to expire in it, I thought it unne-
| ceflary to. confine the chicken any longer, and it ſoon recovered,

I Air


EI],

Air is not leſs neceſſary for the ſupport of fire
than of animal life, | for fire will not long 'conti-
nue to burn without a circulation of freſh air, which
I ſuppoſe happens not from its adding any thing to
the- pabulum of fire (for_ that ſeems unneceſlary)
but [rather on this- account, © The air immediately
about a body on fire, is heated and made ſpecifically
lighter than the air at ſome diſtance from it. This
hot air muſt, therefore, aſcend and carry with it all
thoſe minute particles of different kinds, which are
thrown off from the burning body, and which other-
. wiſe would reſt upon. its ſurface, and thereby clog
and ſtop the ſabtile vibrations of the burning matter,
in which the nature of fire partly confiſts. 1,
therefore, fire be confined in a cloſe place, where
there. .can be no circulation of freſh air, the air about
it being ſoon ſaturated, with the particles ariſing from
the burning matter, will not be able to take up any
more of them, and, therefore, the fire muſt go out
ſmothered as it were in its own aſhes. And hence
it is, that fire burns faſter when air is ſtrongly blown
upon it; for this air carries off the aſhes as faſt as
they are formed on the ſurface of the burning bo-
dy, and thereby keeps thoſe particles that have juſt
taken fire quite free from any thing that can impede
or clog their vibratory motion.