In the third tube, a Torricellian vacuum was
obtained, the tube being then sealed and drawn off, 80 as to admit of being broken
at a filemark when the air was to be collected; after the specimen had been thus
obtained, the aperture was closed by thrusting the neck of the tube into a cap filled
with softened wax.

*'The tubes were within twenty hours after the air had been collected hermetically
sealed by myself, and the proportions of oxygen and nitrogen determined with great
care by detonation with hydrogen in © Recxnavuur's Eudiometer.”

*'The volumes of oxygen found in the air collected at different altitudes are given
in the following table :—

Altitude. Volume of oxygen. Air collected at King's College . . 4 + + 20920
Phe 2s at mls o1ndgwequint io roi: b3;460 feet oi 53:::4111207888
Taben3eduz wil'Þ anotgzanbocy bo ongclg 18;000Heeb; md ding 201747
Tube (G 1), Torricellian vacuum. . . 18,630 feet . . . 20'888

«From these observations it would appear that the composition of the atmosphere,
as regards the proportion of oxygen and nitrogen, scarcely varies more as we ascend
through the first half of that atmosphere (for at an altitude of about 34 miles one-half
of the atmosphere lies beneath us), than it is found to vary at different spots upon
the surface: that there is, in fact (as Gay-Lussac had long since announced as the
result of his experiments, made at a time when the methods of gaseous analysis were


340 MR. J. WELSH'S ACCOUNT OF METEOROLOGICAL

less perfect than at present), no sensible difference in the com-
position of the atmosphere upon the surface, and at the greatest
heights accessible to man.

* In quantities of air 80 limited as those at my disposal, it
was not possible to determine accurately the proportion of car-
bonic acid which they contained, Its presence however was
distinctly shown by the formation of a film of carbonate of lead
upon a solution of the subacetate which was introduced to a
portion of the air confined over mercury,

*I have found a form of pipette, a sketch of which I snb-
join, very useful for transferring small quantities of gases over
mercury.