AND ITS PRODUCTS OF DECOMPOSITION. 69

The Products, formed by the action of caustic baryta on rubian do-not differ from
those resulting from the,action of caustic soda. On adding caustic baryta to a-80lu-
tion of rubian and boiling for some time, the rubian. is, entirely decomposed; the
decompoxition, as might be supposed, requiring. a \rather longer time for-its com-
pletion than in the, case of caustic 80da.,, After the, process is finished, the products
of decompoxition are found for the most part/in.combination with baryta in the shape
of a purple powder, while the liquor till retains a, red, colour. , The, purple, powder is
placed, on, a, filter and, slightly washed with,cold water. On passing, carbonic; acid
through the filtered. liquid, the Jatter,loses,its, red colour, and a, yellowfloceulent
substance, is precipitated together with carbonate of baryta,, The liquid, after being
boiled in order to,decompose the, bicarbonate, of, baryta, and, then, filtered, is, evapo-
rated over $ulphuric acid at the ordinary temperature, when it, leaves a,$ubstance of
a light brown colour, which, resembles the sugar, produced by the action} of acids/on
rubian, but is not. quite,so, deliquescent.,,, This, substance, as I sball presently-show,
is in fact, a baryta, compound of sugar., The mixture of yellow flocks and carbonate
of baryta is now; added. to, the, purple, powder: before mentioned, and; the whole-is
treated with muriatic, acid jn order to extract, the baryta., The acid leayes undissolyed
a quantity of, orange-coloured flocks, which, consist, as, before, of alizarine, rubiretine,
verantine, and rubiadine, as well as of some of the,dark brown flocculent substance,
insoluble in boiling alcohol, and are separated from/ one another in the manner. just
described., If ;sulphuric acid be,employed instead of carbonic acid for separating the
baryta from the, red liquid, and the excess of, acid be neutralized with, carbonate of
baryta, the liquid on evaporation, gives/ a snbstance. exactly similar to. that obtained
in the other case, being also,a compound of,sugar and baryta, but differing from the
latter in containing, only, half the quantity, of baryta.; The identity of the,/alizarine
and rubiretine obtained by the action of alkalies,; with those: produced by the action
of acids, on rubian, is proved by the, following analyses.

0:2255 grm, erystallized alizarine obtained by/means, of caustic soda, lost on being
heated in; the water-bath, 0:0405 water = 17-96 per cent.

01820 grm. of the dry snbstance, burnt with chromate; of Jead*, gave, 0:4610 car-
bonic acid and 0:0770 water. These numbers correspond in 100, parts/to—

Carbon goin Dog hol 1egr07
Hydrogen! .10904/7 07 191470
Oxzygem.o57. noi190gnty IN IGPB

I. 0:2610'grm. rabiretine, prepared by means of canstic soda, and dried at 100% C.,
gave 0'6565 carbonic acid and 01250 water,

* In order to/avoid repetition, L may tate, that' all the orgauie/ analyses given in this paper, in which the
material used for combustion is not especially mentioned, were performed with chromate of lead. MDCCCLII.