Arch. 1845), that, the struc-
ture of the tongue is the same throughout those Mollusks which have a head : © Under the jaw lies the anterior
part of the s0-called tongue, a membrane which is present in all Pteropoda, Cephalopoda, Gasteropoda, in short,
in all those Mollusks which possess a head. Itis wanting in all the s0-called Acephala, in the Biralves and in
the Tunicata. It rests, as in all cases where it is present, upon two portions of cartilage of. whitish colour,
combined by a membrane and moyed by many museles.” It is clear, however, from this passage, that TzoscaeL
has not recognized the true mechanism of the organ,

+ There is a curious similarity between the © tongue” of the Mollusca and the arrangement of the dental
apparatus in the Plagiostome fishes, which may be viewed perhaps as another illustration of Von Bazx's law,
that while the exterior of a yertebrate animal is Articulate in its construction, the interior is Molluscous.

{ Since writing the above, I find that so far back as 1829, the existence of this organ was distinetly pointed
out, though strangely enough the fact has been quite overlooked by every one saye Vox StzroLD; he, however,
merely refers to the statement in a note, and says he *does not know what to make of it.” (Vergleichende Ana-
tomie, p. 312.) This statement is contained in a valuable paper upon the anatomy of the Mollusca, entitled
« General Observations on Univalves,” by Mr. Cuantes Collier, Staff-Surgeon at Ceylon; printed in the
Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal for 1829, p. 231. © There is an organ, the crystalline stiletto, confined
erroneously by a celebrated naturalist, (Cuv1zs) to. bivalves, which is found in every. species of Strombus, in'Tro-
chus turritus, and a species (Vertagus) of Murez. It is enclosed in a sheath, that passes parallel to-and by the
8ide of the cesophagus, to the stomach, into which the stiletto, enters, leaving its covering ; that end which:lies
within the stomach is obtuse, laminated, and fixed by a hook of imilar eubstance to its situation.