But in others the nerves which are given off present numerous enlarge-
ments in their course, and this tendency to a ganglionic disposition is $0 decided among the highest Mollusks,
that all the nerves emanating from the central medullary masses produce new ganglia in the parts to which
they are distributed” (p. 667). Again :—* From the facts which have just been stated summarily, T believe I may conclude, —

*1. That the exclusive analogy which many naturalists have wished to establish between the nervous system
of the Mollusca, and one of the portions of the same system in the animals of higher classes, is not only con-
trary to physiological principles, but als to anatomical facts.

2, That the nervous system of Mollusks corresponds, in fact, in its distribution to the same parts as those
which constitute it in the superior animals, the whole difference consisting in the degree of development and
dispozition of the parts which is in relation with the rank that Mollusks occupy in the series, and the plan
which nature has followed in their zoological type.

3, That the definition very commonly given of this system in Mollusks, that it is composed of ganglia $cat-
tered in different parts of the body, is not exact, since the parts which by their fixity ought to be considered as
those which essentially constitute it, are always grouped round the cexophagus. 'The others, in fact, are.to be
regarded only as different degrees of development of these central portions, which is proved by their degrada-
tion or disappearance in proportion as we descend in animals of this series.

*4, That the central neryous system of Mollusca is always double, and consequently symmetrical, in opposi-
tion to what some anatomists have advanced ; that it hardly differs in this respect from the nervous system of
the Articulata, except by the centralization of the locomotive ganglia, a centralization which may be observed
in many animals of the latter type.

«5. Lastly, that it has been wrongly asserted as a general rule, that the ganglia of which the nervous circle
of the Mollusca is composed, tend to approximate the higher the organization of the animal, the pozition of
these ganglia heing essentially subordinate to that of the organs which they have to innervate ” (p. 669). The very just and admirable views here set forth seem to have met with strange neglect ; foreigners, how-
ever, might be pardoned for this, since M.