The experiment No. 4, in which the latter fact is shown, is interesting, from the
cireumstance that the same results are produced by the living vibratile spermatozoon
on the yelks of the dead eggs, as the majority of these were, as that which is occa-
Sioned by the application of dead and decomposing spermatozoa to the envelopes of
the living one, as shown in No. 6 of the preceding set ; and further, that these results
80 closely resemble in appearance the first effects produced on the yelks of living eggs
by the application of strong solution of potass ; thereby showing not only that powerful
endosmic action takes place rapidly through the coverings of the egg, but also that
the influence of the spermatozoon on the yelk, whatever may be its precise nature,
is direct and immediate.

4. ENDOSMOSIS OF THE EGG IN RELATION TO ITS VITALITY. It-has before been shown that the endosmic action of the envelopes of the egg, on
immersion in water, is closely connected with the act of fecundation ; and we bave
now further proof of this in the fact that the vitality of the egg may be preseryed for
many hours if the envelopes be not brought into contact with water; 80 that the
insusceptibility of the egg to become impregnated, after a lengthened period of
immersion, is due to a diminution of the expansive. property of the tissue of the


F + 11:11 / AND ON THE DIRECT AGENCY OF THE SPERMATOZOON. 243

[7

envelopes, and the distension of the tissne with fluid, rather than to the loss of vitality
in the.contents of the yelk. This view has led me to endeavour to ascertain more precisely than heretofore, —
first, at what, length of time, after immersion in water, the egg usually becomes
insusceptible of impregnation ;. and next, to what extent the act of fecundation is
accelerated by a given increase of temperature, when the experiments are made with
portions; of fluid from the/ same male, and with eggs from the same female, at, as
nearly as possible, the same time, all the conditions being similar except, in regard to
the temperature of the surrounding medium. With this object, I have recently made two ets of observations consisting each of
nine experiments.