The focus in different ©
inſtances may be ſeated at a different diſtance from the ſurface ; ©
but none are probably leſs than ſeveral miles at leaſt deep. 2,8
The currents of granitic lava + in the Pontian iſles leave little |
room to doubt of the power of ſubterraneous fire to: produce
this ſubſtance. To ſuppoſe them to. be rocks of granite fuſed,
but otherwiſe unchanged, and that even fifile rocks may be *
made to flow without lofing their laminated ſtruQuure; is as bold |
an afſumption as can eaſily be taken up. In the great igneous
procefles of nature fire need not be imagined to a& otherwiſe ?

* Doxowtev, Ifles Ponces, p, 3o, 31. and Ifles de Lipari, in various parts.
+ DoLomtrev, /. c, paſſim, and particularly p, 89—97, Inftrudive as the. ©
particular facts deſcribed by this excellent mineralogiſt always are, T muſt diſſent
from him both on the mode of a&tion of volcanic fires, and on the prodution of |

zeolite and other cryſtals, in glandular rocks, for the reaſons afligned here and
below.

4 © Le feu produit, dans les layes,

une fluidite qui n'a aucun rapport avec la
fluidite vitreuſe que nous operons ,

- + - » Celuides volcans wa point dinten- ©
it; il ne peut pas meme vitrifier les ſubſtances les plus fukbles , . . . il pro-
duit la fluidite par une eſpece de diſſolution, Par une ſimple dilatation qui permet
aux parties de gliſſer les unes ſur les autres (Dorowttr, Avant-propos, p. 8.).4
See alſo p. 84, Fire in a crucible produces fluidity no otherwiſe; and when |
there is this freedom of motion among the Particles, how can we ſuppoſe the

cryſtals of granite and the leayes of ſchiſtus to remain unmixed eyen in a current
of laya? Afinity between Baſaltes and Granite. 63

than in our ſmall experiments; we aQually ſee it producing
glaſs and cellular ſpongy ſcoriz : when the procuQts are of a
different charater, we muſt have recourſe . to accetlory circum-
ſtances, and not violate the plaineſt, rules of philoſopbiling by
attributing different effe&s to the ſame cauſe, The latent mo-
tive for ſuch an extraordinary hypotheſis may eaſily be divined ;
the obſerver took it for granted, that all granite is of aqueous
fqrmation ; hence he was obliged to reaſon backwards from
fhc unknown, that of the Alps for inſtance, to the known,
jgſtead of proceeding from the palpable effeQs of ſubterraneous
=D by eaſy ſteps to a general theory of granite. When it is
tiken for granted, before examination, that granite cannot be
farmed by fire, there remains no reſource but to ſay, that gra-
mtic * Iavas are granite rocks fuſed, but not altered in the
Wrangement of their conſtituent parts. 3.