Buss, Tours and WargRnovst, with resn]ts precisely similar to: those which


\ 111, AND, ON THE DIRECT AGENCY OF THE SPERMATOZOON. 281

#ri

are detailed in that paper ; viz. that when dilated spermatic fluid, recently obtained,
is applied to a set of eggs, and—as s00n afterwards as the experiment can be made,
a solution of potass,—of snch a strength as is known by previous microscopic observa-
tion to have the property of instantly decomposing the spermatic body,—the solution
being wasbed away quiekly after its application, by repeated quantities of water,—
to prevent. its affecting the egg itself—that then—in some- instances—even when the
interval of time between the application of the spermatic fluid and the subsequent ap-
plication of the potass does not exceed a few seconds,—impregnation of the egg is
effected; as is proved by the formation of the chamber, the segmentation of the
yelk, and perhaps the formation of an embryo. Further, that, all circumstances
being similar, excepting only that the interyal of time between the application of the
a spermatic fluid, and, subsequently, that of the solution of potass be prolonged, —the
Q production of an embryo is not, only more certain to take place, but the number of
5 embryos produced is increased. The now ascertained fact of almost instantaneous
Sz penetration by the spermatozoon, which, as before shown, sometimes arrives at the
£ vitelline membrane in less than one minute after its application to the egg, confirms
> the principal conclusion deduced from the potass experiments at the time they were
made, viz. that impregnation is commenced at the instant the spermatozoon is in con-
5 tact with the egg; while it also seems to afford the true explanation of the nature of
= those experiments, in which it way now be presumed that some spermatozoa had
[= actually penetrated into the substance of the envelopes before the application of the
» Solution of potass, and thus had already passed out of the reach of its destructive
© influence, the effect of which on the egg itself was obviated by speedy dilution and
S ablution with water. E The potass experiments may thus be regarded as confirming by anticipation the
& results now obtained by direct observation with the microscope, with respect to the
= rapidity of operation by the spermatozoon ; and they seem also to support the view
s of the essentiality of the motor power of this body to its functional action. A similar
IS View may be taken, as indeed was held at the time, of the nature of the Carmine, the
Ly Gum, and the Starch experiments, that the operation of these substances in preventing
<= the fecundation of the egg is entirely mechanical, and that they do 89 simply by offering
5 a mechanical impediment to the spermatozoon, a conclusion which seems to be fully
Supported in the present inquiry.

14.