The yelks of some of the eggs
became much contracted, and, as it were, shrivelled, as when affected by potass solu-
tion ; of the penetration of which to the yelk there is absolute proof in the decomposi-
tion of the egg which quickly succeeds to its introduction. It has also been shown
in a preceding experiment (p. 241) that the yelk becomes similarly affected when
> decomposing spermatic fluid is applied to it. _

The conclusion then which seems to me to be deducible from these investigations
is, that fecundation is not simply the result of a mere fusion or chemical admixture of
the: substance! of the spermatozoon with that of the egg; although such fusion,
probably, is _necessary to the production of the organized body of the embryo, in
determining its structural and psychical peculiarities, and its definite species ; and
more or less of which may, possibly, belp to determine the sex, and the extent to
which the structural and psychical peculiarities of the male parent are transmitted
: to the offspring. That this fusion of some portion of the spermatic substance with
the egg does actually take place, either when the spermatozoon has arrived at, and
become imbedded in the vitelline membrane, as in the Frog; or, as stated by a
recent obseryer*, to occur in the Ascaris Mystar, when it is in immediate contact
with the yelk itself, is probable, from the considerations now adduced. 'Phese views
are countenanced by the now established fact that the spermatozoon of the Frog, and
probably also of other Vertebrata, does not fertilize the egg either when it is perfectly
motionless,—whether from actual death, or from suspension of vitality by narcotiza-
tion; nor even, as we now find, though living, while simply in contact with the
surface; nor until after it has actually passed into the envelopes, and arrived at the
immediate vicinity of the yelk;—facts which seem, I think, inferentially, to show a
probability that, whatever conjugation of materials may be effected, some vitalizing
dynamic influence is also expended by the spermatozoon on the contents of the yelk in
the production of its changes —phenomena which have not been found to take place

* Dr. Nx180xN, « On the Reproduction of the Ascaris Mystaz,” Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. vi. P- 86.