The relation between the heat evolved and the work spent, approximately
established by the air-experiments communicated to the Royal Society in 1844, was
subjected to an independent indirect test by an application of Carnor's theory, with
values of © Carxor's function” which had been calculated from Reaxaurr's data as
to the pressure and latent heat of steam, and the assumption (in want of experimental
data), that the density varies according to the gaseous laws. The verification thus
obtained was very striking, showing an exact agreement with the relation of equiva-
lence at a temperature a little above that of observation, and an agreement with the
actual experimental results quite within the Jimits of the errors of observation ; but
a very wide discrepancy from equivalence for other temperatures. 'The following
Table is extracted from the Appendix to the © Account of Carxnor's Theory” in which
the theoretical comparison was first, made, to facilitate a comparison with what
we now know to be the true circumstances of the case.

* It is worthy of remark that this, the expression for the cooling effect experienced by a mass of atmospheric
air expanding from a bulk in which its pressure is P to a bulk in which, at the same (or very nearly the same)
temperature its pressure is P', and spending all its work of expansion in friction among its own particles, agrees

PP

very closely with the expression, *26 x P , for the cooling effect in the somewhat different circumstances

of our experiments,


THERMAL EFFECTS OF FLUIDS IN MOTION. 345

«Table of the Values of * 5 LI , YE

« Work requisite to « Work requisite to
produce a unit of heat |, produce a unit of heat |,

1 Temperature © Temperature
by the compression TE US OA by the OTE of the gas

of a
190489 [W]. - WO+E) . =[W].

ft. lbs.
1446-4
1455's
1465'3
1475's
1489-2
1499-0
1511'3
15235
1536-5
1550-2
1564-0
15778

We now know, from the experiments described above in the present paper, that the
numbers in the first column, and we may conclude with almost equal certainty, that
the numbers in the third also, ought to be each very nearly the mechanical equivalent
of the thermal unit. This having been ascertained to be 1390 (for the thermal unit
Centigrade) by the experiments on the friction of fluids and solids, communicated to
the Royal Society in 1849, and the mane having been found above to fall short of the

equivalent of heat produced, by about 5->, at the temperature of the air-experiments at

T7
present communicated, and by somewhat less at such a higher temperature as 30?,
we may infer that the agreement of the tabulated theoretical result with the fact is
perfect at about 30? Cent. Or, neglecting the small discrepance by which the work
truly required falls short of the equivalent of heat produced, we may conclude that

2

the true value of *E= for all temperatures is about 1390 ; and hence that if [W]

denote the numbers Bs for it in the preceding table, w the true value of Carnot's
function, and [] the yalue tabulated for any temperature in the © Account of
Carxor's Theory,” we must have, to a very close degree of approximation,
1390

6=[p] X75 IT”
But if[o]denote the formerly assumed specific gravity of saturated steam, p its pressure,
and x its latent heat per pound of matter, and if e be the mass (in pounds) of water in a
cubic foot, the expression from which the tabulated values of [j-] were calculated is

1-[o]1ldp,
=] x
while the true expression for Carxor's function in terms of properties of steam is
, =
Go A at”

MDCCCLIV. 2Yy


346 MR.