'This is the
most elegant statement of the law, but to avoid negative quantities, the statement
may be modified as follows :—if the facients (xz, y) are considered as being of the
weights 1, 0 respectively, and the coefficients (a, 6..Þ\, a') as being of the weights
0, 1..m=1, m respectively, then the weight of each term of the covariant will be
4 (m0-+p).

24. The preceding laws as to the form of a covariant have been stated here by
way of anticipation, principally for the sake of the remark, that they s0 far define the
form of a covariant as to render it in very many cases practicable with a moderate
amount of labour to complete the investigations by means of the operations {x0,} —x9,
and {yd,}—yo,. In fact, for finding the covariants of a given order, and of a given
degree in the coefficients, we may form the most general function of the proper order
and degree in the coefficients, satisfying the prescribed conditions as to symmetry and
weight: such function, if reduced to zero by one of the operations in question, will,
on account of the symmetry, be reduced to zero by the other of the operations in
question ; it is therefore only necessary to effect upon it, e.g. the operation {x9,} — x,,
and to determine if possible the indeterminate coefficients in such manner as to
render the result identically zero: of course when this cannot be done there is not
any covariant of the form in question. It is moreover proper to remark, as regards
invariants, that if an invariant be expanded in a series of ascending powers of the
first coefficient a, and the first term of the expansion is known, all the remaining
terms can be at once deduced by mere differentiations. There is one very important
case in which the value of such first term (7. e. the value of the invariant when @« is
put equal to 0) can be deduced from the corresponding invariant of a quantic of the

* I may remark that it was only M. HenwTz's important discovery of an invariant of the degree 18 of a
quantic of the order 5, which removed an erroneous impression which 1 had been under from the commence-
ment of the subject, that mb was of necessity evenly even.

MDCCCLIV.