When the Therm: ſhewed the ſtate of the out-
ward air to be conſiderably leſs warm, than what an-
ſwers to the degree at which water is fixed, the ſame
changes happened, by carrying the Tourmalin from
it, into a room, where the Quickfilver ſtood at 34:
and afterwards, from thence, back again into the open

air,
Sir


[ [ 455 ]

Sir Iſaac Newton carried two Thermometers, pro-
perly prepared, out of a cold place into a'warm one,
in order to ſhew that the warmth was conveyed
through the vacuum, by the vibrations of a much
\ubtiler medium than the air: and had theſe laſt ex-
periments upon''the Tourmalin at that time been
known to him, he muſt have been agrecably ſurpriſed
to find them' tending fo ſtrongly to eſtabliſh the 'ex-
iſtance of that /ub7zle medium *, This do@rine re-
ceives a further confirmation from the experiments
that follow. EXPERIMENT VI. About the middle of this month, December, the
wind being full ſouth, and the air loaded with a thick
fogg, which you know is the worſt of weather for
eleric experiments, the Tourmalin afforded the ſame
appearances as before, by removing it from one room to
another ; and even into the open vapourous air ; not-
withſtanding the unfavourable ſeaſon : but then, the
appearances were weaker,

EXPERIMEN T VII

In the moft wet ſeaſon, and during frequent heavy
ſhowers of rain, I repeated the firſt, ſecond, third, and
fourth experiments. _ And though the eledric power
was not very ſtrong, yet they always ſucceeded fo well
as to aſcertain the facts.

* See Newton, Opt. page; 323

Nnn 2 EX-


( 456]
E X P/E/ RI M ENT VIE. After being acquainted with the preceding expe-
riments, . you. will not wonder that the Tourmalin
afforded the ſame appearances on. removing it, in the
open” dry air, from the ſun-ſhine into the ſhade ;
and again, from the ſhade into the ſun-ſhine,

If theſe ſmall differences, in the degrees of warmth,
are capable of cauſing ſuch appearances; well may
the greater differences; and ſuch more particularly as
Mr. Brawn and yourſe/f have. experienced in freezing
of Quick-filver: and therefore I cannot now agree with
you an calling that the natural flate of the Tourmalin,
which ariſes from the heat given it by boiling water,

EXPERIMENT IX.