The Operation was perform'd by Dr Dariel
Swab, a Phyſician and, Surgeon, and the Knife is kept in a

1 meaſured it by an Engliſh Foot Rule 1 had then in my
Pocket,



| (1409 )
Pocket, and found it to be of,our meaſure but ſix-Inches
and about-a half long, as-is expreſs'd/in the Cuts given us
f it. What their Authors mean, by ſaying the Kyife was,
decem tranſverſos digitos longum, 1don't know 3) but this has.
made the Story ridiculous to a great many people, who
will hardly be perſwaded, that any body can paſs through
the fornix palati,. or Vault ot his. Mouth, 'a Knife of that
length in a right line. |
S 1 made enquiry concerning it, and was very well aſſured.
by ſeveral people of the Town the matter of fact was
rue ; and 'tis hard to think, the King of Poland; who
was then at Koningeberg, the Government. of the City,
ind the College of Phyſicians, who - were 'conſulted! upon
The Operation ;, and, together with his Poliſb Majeſty,
vere Ey2-witneſſes of it, ſhou'd by the Certificates they
Have publiſh'd of it in Print, Contrive to impoſe-a Cheat
ipon.the World. | And remember, talking one day, witlt,
vne Mr Taylor, a Scotch Merchant in| Koningeberg,, be: told;
Ine, that Andrew Grunheide, for that was the» mans. name,
avas his particular Friend: and Acquaintancez that he ſaw
his Wound ſeveral times when his Surgeons dreſs'd him,
and was Godfather to oneor two of | his Children after his
RECOVEry.
\ When I was laſt in Amſterdam, I had the Curioſity to go
to a Tavern, where the Maſter was very Curious in Birds,
and had. a great variety of ſome very uncommon ones3.
amongſt which, in a Chamber by itſelf, be ſhow'd me a
Cage with a Bird in it a little bigger than a Capon, «which
he valued as a great Rarity, and told me it colt him near,
a hundred pounds Sterling : He takes a Groat from every,
© body that is admitted to fee it, I muſt nceds fay I never
ſaw a more beautiful Creature in all my life; in Body. ſome-,
what like a Hawk, but its Head and Neck bald like a Yul- -
ure, only a few ſhort Feathers over his Eyes like Eye-brows,
this Eyes were pretty large, and the 1rjs of a very fine bright
Pearl: Colour, which gave a great beauty to this Bird. The
; Colour. U
q


&
(\ 14401!)
Chlour of his Feathers 3s ſo/curiouſly! mixt with that variety
t152t no Paititer can "imitate! them; -and/"entertains'the'Eye
with a great deal of pleaſure: His Bill and- Head in ſhape”
are more like the Eagle 'than the Vulture; "tho Þ take it to®
be of'the kind 'of the latter,! but of the lefler ſort, 4
This Bird carne from!