In fact, according to the laws of resonance, those rays will act most forcibly on
the medium, which find amongst the particles of the latter s0me capable of vibrating
in unison, or in harmonic consonance less perfect than unison, with themselves, the
unison of course giving rise to by far the most energetic action, but the other cons0-
nances producing effects more decided as the coincidences of phase are more frequent ;


MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 33

we ee therefore in general why particular rays should be selected for absorption, with-
out any insensible gradation, and why some lines of absorption, those corresponding
to nnizon for example, should be more strongly marked than others ; and these pre-
liminaries being conceived, then comes the equation

Sin 0=(1+9)£ sin 0,

which explains how those rays which undergo absorption are turned out of their places
and deflected towards the less refracted end of the spectrum, and in some cases,
though with intensities 80 diminished as to be imperceptible, far beyond the limits of
the visible spectrum. In fact as s increases, the above equation shows that 0, increases.
'Phe refracted ray is therefore turned more from the normal, or deviates less from its
original course than it would do if there were no absorption, in which case $=1).
"The intensities of the reflected and refracted rays, both in the primary and secondary
planes, will of course be diminished by the loss of vis viva, as is further apparent from
the expressions which have been obtained for ?', 4, ;' and j, in Nos. 24 and 25, namely,

4. 8in? (0-0) . 4 cos?68infs8n0,

= (946) 1+s in? (0+6)
fi ED 8n 29—(1+8) _

(1+s) 8in 29+(1+8) 8in 26,

- — 4 sing ſ (1+5)8ﬆin269 |}? EET ﬆn9 [(1+s)sﬆn 26+(1+8) sin 2, ) :

where it may be observed that 7, and 7, diminish rapidly as s increases. Without
the turning action above mentioned, the lines of absorption might exist indeed in a
less marked manner, but the turning action fairly dismisses the weakened rays out
of their places, and these places, if occupied at all, will be occupied by stray rays of a
different colour from their immediate neighbours, presenting a faint tinge of the
colour which has been turned from a remote space on the more refracted end of the
Spectrum.