The same element is called by M. RzcnavLT the coefficient of dilatation of
a gas at constant volume,

222


356 MR. J. P, JOULE AND PROFESSOR THOMSON ON THE

tions of these properties may be made to contribute, along with direct measurements
of the pressure for various particular conditions of the pressure, towards completing
the determination of the function which expresses this element in terms of v and #. But it must be remarked, that even complete obseryations determining the pressure
for every given state of the fluid, could give no information as to the values of # on
the absolute scale, although they might afford data enough for fully expressing p in
terms of the volume and the temperature with reference to some particular snbstance
used thermometrically. On the other band, obseryations on the specific heats of the
fluid, or on the thermal effects it experiences in escaping through narrow passages,
may lead to a knowledge of the absolute temperature, f, of the fluid when in some
known condition, or to the expression of p in terms of v, and absolute values of t ;
and accordingly the formulz (7), (8), and (15) contain # explicitly, each of them in
fact essentially involving Carnor's function. As for actual observations on the specific
heats of air, none which have yet been published appear to do more than illustrate the
theory, by confirming (as Mr. Joure's, and the more precise results more recently
published by M. RzcGxavrr, do), within the limits of their accuracy, the value for
the specific heat of air under constant pressure which we calculated* from the
ratio of the specific heats, determined according to LapLace's theory by observations
on the velocity of sound, and the difference of the specific heats determined by CarnoT's
theorem with the value of Carxor's function estimated from Mr. JouLs's original
experiments on the changes of temperature produced by the rarefaction and conden-
sation of air, and established to a closer degree of accuracy by our preliminary expe-
riments on expansion through a resisting solid}. It ought also to be remarked, that
the specific heats of air can only be applied to the evaluation of absolute temperature
with a knowledge of the mechanical equivalent of the thermal unit ; and therefore
it is probable that, even when sufficiently accurate direct determinations of the specific
heats are obtained, they may be useful rather for a correction or verification of the
mechanical equivalent, than for the thermometric object.