In arts. (61:), (62.), (63.), it is proved that the
Bezontiant is an invariantive fanction of the functions from which it is derived ; and
in-art. (64.)\the important remark is added, that it is an invariant of that particular
class to which I have given the name of Combinants, which bave the property of
remaining unaltered, not only for linear transformations of the variables, but also for
linear combinations "of the functions containing the variables, possessing thus a
character 'of- double invariability.” In arts.” (65.),(66.), I consider the relation of the
Bezoutiant;to, the differential determinant, 80 called, by Jacomi, but which, for greater
brevity I call the Jacobian. On proper substitutions being made in the Bezontiant
of 'the (m) variables which it contains (mz being the degree in x, y of F and g), the
Bezoutiant becomes identical with the Jacobian to F and 9; but as it is afterwards


414 MR. SYLVESTER ON A THEORY OF THE CONJUGATE

shown, this is not a property peculiar to the Bezoutiant ; in fact there exists a whole
family of quadratic forms of m variables, lineo-linear (like the Bezoutiant) in respect
of the coefficients in # and 8, all of which-enjoy the-same property. + The-number of
individuals of such family must evidently be infinite, because any linear combination
of any two of them must possess a similar property ; I have discovered, however, that
the number of independent forms of this kind is limited, being equal to the number
of odd integers not greater than the degree of the two functions Fand p. In arts.
(67.) and (68.), I give the means of constructing the scale of forms, which I term the
constituent or fundamental scale, of which all others of the kind are merely numerico-
linear combinations. This scale does not directly include the Bezontiant within it,
and it, becomes an object of interest to determine the numbers which connect the
Bezontiant with the fundamental forms; this calculation I have carried on (in arts.
(69.), (70.), (71.)) from m=1 to m=6 inclusive, and added an easy method of con-
tinuing indefinitely.