If a; quadratic homogeneous function ,of any number
of variables he (as it may be in-an infinite-variety of ways) transformed into a function
of a new set of variables, linearly, connected by real coefficients with the original set,
in such a way that only positiye' and negative squares of the new variables appear in
the transformed expression, the, number of such positive and negative squares respect-
ively will be constant-for a, given function whatever be the linear transformations
employed. This evidently amounts to the proposition, that if we have 22 positive and
negative squares of homogeneous real linear functions of » yariables identically equal
to zero, the number of positive'squares and of negative squares must be equal to one
another, $0 that ev. gr.'we cannot have”
+{1}+u+ &C.... +1 + up = — Un RC. =}
identically zero when of the variables are linear functions of the remaining n; and
this is obviouslythe case, for if the equation could be identicallysatisfied wemight make
Mhea=ili (thorn lat ll = Une

and we should then he able-to find v,,, as-a real numerical multiple of z,, and con-
sequently shonld have the equation u4.{1 +} =0, which is obviously impossible ;
& fortiori we may prove that in; the identical, equation existing between the sum of
an even number of positive and, of negative squares of real linear functions of half
the number of independent variables, there cannot be more than a difference of two
(as we have proved that there cannot be, that difference) between the number of
positive and negative $8quares. Hence there must be as many of one as of the other ;
and'as a" consequenee,” the number of positive 8quares or of negative squares in
the, transform. of a, given quadratic /function- of: any number of yariables effected by
any set, of real linear substitutions is constant, being in fact s0me unknown trans-
cendental function of the coefficients of the given function. ' I quote this law (which
I. have enunciated before, but of which 1 for tbe: first time publish the proof) under
the name of the law of inertia for quadratic forms. Art. (45.). The other theorem. is the following...