Bay


AS APPLICABLE TO TWO FUNCTIONS'TOF (THE 18MEVDEGREE, 513

where ByB,izcB, vj aretheBezontianiseeondaries to fgarandFle, themumberiof vu.
ations of ([8igrbetween'consecutive terms in; this/ geriesp when w/lig: made 4+ 1; will
measwvethe number 6f-pairs'6f imaginary roots-in;fezrandkfrarid fax torming/alwicys
a continuation, and»thecoefficient'bf #/(z)-being snpposed positive,-we 8eeithatithe
terms) of the vhizotistic series will: berlg(B,),-(B)o/(By)!tonsisting-df positiveanity;
and the'successiveascending* coaxalideterminants of the/Bezoutian:matiixzto and
F...-\Henve then-theoformiof the Bezoutiant-tof/wand; frolwilbsevvertodeterminethe
number of pairs of imaginary, and consequently also the-numbevr of real/rootsto-fv;
It should be remarked vl form of\.the Bezontiant to fly and fr, considered as
a quadratic function of wjyug%..2,,_; and'of the coefficients in#(a), will remain unal-
tered when for fix we wr its, for this will change"the 8ighs thronghont of fir and
F,z, and consequently the eotfficients"in the Bezoutfant, which contain in every tern
one coefficient from f'@, and one from f;z, will remain unaltered insigh./

Art. (59.). It appears then from the preceding article, that for every function of z
of the degree m, there [exists a homogeneous quadratic function of (m—1) variables,
the inertia of which augmented. by unity will represent; the number of real roots in
the given function. Now this inertia itself may be measnred by the number of posi-
tive F60ts"of acertdin equition” ih 1 formed from the quadiatictunetion (WH Fact the
wellKtiown equation'for the SccuTar in6qualities of the planets); all ligs6 roots' will
be real. Hence then w& are led'to*the following remarkable staterient, Aj ulge:
Druith equation of any degree being" given, n equation whose degree is' the unit lower
thay" be forme, all thie foots of which" shtll betreal, and" of which the nuntber of positite
POOES'SHQUD Ve ofie Tes8 thith He Total amber of Veal Toots bf the given equation?”

'0 Tt us'8nppose fe written"in its wot general. form; the first and Kist'as well /as\all
the intermeditte coefficients being /anytliing whatever by reveising the order of the
evefficientsF'a will beeome fix anda will'/beconef'z'; theBezoutiantto)f,a and Pt
(which we may term the'Bezontoid'to fa) will renin analtered except in sign; and
the equation” of the'(m—1)th*degree in formed from the Bezoutoid" remain un-
changed, consequently the equation in z enables us to substitute, for tlie ptrpost'of
ealtvliting the'total momber bf reaP'roots/in"/(x) intien" bf Srourw's auxiliary fanc-
tions to f(x), another set of functions Which'remiin analtered when"the order” of the
coefficients is completely-reversed,-4. e. in effect, when,we-consider the number of real

roots of f(;) in lien of those of f(z). - And, of .conurse more, generally the equation of

the mth degree in > formed from the Bezoutiant to any two functions fir and or of
the mth degree each in 7, supplies a set of functions for determining the total number
of effective intercalations between»the'roots of F(x) and o(z); which do not alter when
we consider in liew' of these, the roots (2) and o(: wy: This' 8#hstitation of funic-

Teh

tions symmetrically formed j in respect to the two ends of an equation For the purpose
of assigning the total number of real Foots, in Jeu of the unsymmetrical ones furnished
Ui gy ©


514 MR. SYLVESTER' ON) THE!