When a syzygetic function of a given set of functions can be made to
yanish, they are said to be syzygetically related. Transform. —Equivalent to the French noun substantive © trangformee.”

Type.—The type of a cumulant'is| the-series of the-simple elements (or quotients), arranged in a
fixed order, of which the cumulant-is:composed:

Unbral.—The: umbral notation/is/a notation according to which-simple quantities are denoted by
syllables, instead of by 8ingle letters (the composition. of these- syllables being governed by the mode
in which the quantities which they express are obtained); and the single letters of such syllables
are termed umbral quantities or umbre. Weight, —In this memoir (throughout the: earlier sections) the! weight of any quantity .composed
of the product of the coefficients of any given function or functions of @is used| to, denote, the
number of roots, of. >. appertaining|to/the-given funetion..op functions which must be, employed
to express,8uch,quantity.,, More: generally, wben-dealing with a-systent of homogeneous functions,


248 GLOSSARY OF NEW (OR UNUSUAL TERMS.

the weight of a quantity may be defined with respect to any sclected variable therein as the 8um
of the weights in respect to such variable of the several coefficients of which the quantity is com-
posed (the weight of each several coefficient meaning the index of the power of the selected variable
in that term of theigiven fiction op functions which is-affected; with <richycoefficient). « /Thess/thy6
definitions of weight\may be perfectly well veponeiled with each, other by understanding. the weight

of a quantity formed from the coefficients of a function or system of functions of - to mean the weight,

in respect to unity, of such quantity when the given functions are treated as homogeneous fattetions
of x and 1. Zeta.—The symbol & (preceding a row of bracketed terms)"isnsed to denote the product of the
squared differences of the terms which it affects.

{ /]-A bracket of this form; when inclosing;w8uperior arid aw inferior row 6f:terms:m arid bi þ
number respectively, indicates the products of the differences obtained; by subtracting each term
in the second row from each, term in the first, row; when enclosing an arrangement of terms ina single
line, it is, used to denote the cumulant of which such an, arrangement is the type. O01

(M1 N011612 16113 16 enon
[ tBi 2f Ingme 02 26m ot 9Idail bas
It dir ba1r iw

Introduction. -.- or: anparti ode reuaynngs hav cas ro OE eG TS Ode ho EE EE IC EUSA

Sger10N8 1,—On the complete and. simplified residues, generated. in, the proces, of developing, under the,.., . -;

form of a continued fraction, an ordinary rational algebraical fraction,............. fpootooganane nemmeyocouen 415

Szer108 IL, —On the general solution, in terms, of, the xoots,of | avy(two, given algebraical funetions, of x, =
of the syzygetic equation, which connects them, with;a third function, whose degree in (z) is given,

no9
but, whoss:torm'Js 'to'be'determined';./1i 7c. iiovieric ot forthe 12 ger ere rea Ie EIEEs 2s En gen EE EEeS IR 433

. . , ONos UA
Sect10N ITL,—On the application of the Theorems in the preceding, Section: to the expresion in terms -,
of the roots of any primitive function of STURM's auxiliary functions, and the, other functions which
connect these with the primitive function and its first differential derivative ........... ooo. 456

: l 01 b9199z
Supplement to SecTIOoN III.—On the Quotients resulting from the, process of continued division opdi- | .
narily applied to two, Algebraical Functions in order to determine their greatest Common Measure... 467

111691

Szcriox 1V.—On ome further Formule; connected with M.