If we take any two of these systems of intersections, as (F,g) and (g, k), they will
-both lie upon one of "the 'given curves! (g). And by reading off the two 'systems of
points (F, g) and (g, h), arranged according to the order upon which they are disposed
upon the curve g, we may, by following the course of such curve, form a scale of
effective intercalations for these two systems, and in like manner for the two systems
(g, hk) and (hf); (hf) and (F, g). Now I believe that it will be found that when
F. 8, h represent any algebraical curves consisting of a single continuous line, either
extending to infinity,in both directions, or returning to itself (and I have fully satisfied
myself of the truth of this for the case' of ellipses), each effective scale of intercalation
will contain the same number /of pairs 'of points; if, however, the curves consist of
more than one branch,” as if hyperbolze be considered, such is no longer necessarily
the case; from these facts, conjoined with the light thrown upon the snbject by its
relation to the theory of combinants explained in the succeeding section, I am induced
to-infer the probability of the truth of the following law (which, for avoidance of
further uncertainty, I confine to the case of functions 'of the same degree), viz. that
if f, g, + be three homogeneous functions'of x, y, and z of the same degree, and if
U, V, W be any three linear functions of fg, kt, and if U=0, V=0, W=0 be' treated
as'the equations to three cones, and if we form an effective scale of the intercalations
of the lines of intersection of U and W, and V and W, according to the order in
which they are disposed upon W (which seems to require that the lines shall be con-
tinuous, in order to admit of a fixed order of reading off the intersections of any two
of them upon the third) ; then whatever value may have been given to the coefficients
in the linear functions the number of elements remaining in any such scale will (as I
conjecture) be constant,” and some theory (to be discovered) for three functions
analogous to that of Bezoutian'residues for two functions will serve to determine the
MDCCCLIIT. 3'7T


496 MR, SYLYESTER ON A, DEVELOPMENT OF, THE METHOD, OF ASSIGNING

number of the elements $0, remaining. And $0, in like manner, but. with a difficulty
increasing at each step (as at the next step we. should haye to pass into quasi-space, of
four dimensions), a theory of intercalations may be conjectured to exist for any (n)
general functions of any (2—1), variables. n

Development of the method of assigning a $uperior and inferior limit to the roots of any
algebraical equation,

Art. («.). Since; the, articles in the preceding part of 'this,section on!the method of
discovering limits to the roots of an algebraical equation were written, the method of
which the germ is therein contained has presented itself in a much more fully deve-
loped form, which I proceed to exhibit: for greater simplicity I sball suppose ga to
be of n—1, and fw to be of n dimensions in, and that by means of the ordinary
process for common measure (except that as'in STurn's theorem the'8ign-of all: the

remainders are changed) þ bas been thrown under the form of the improper con-

tinued fraction
Tg Ny ett
= = =o
where 9; 9+---4,.are all restricted to signify simple linear functions of x.