F FT HE Committee appointed by the Royal Socrety

to dire& the publication of the Philoſophical
Tranſa&ions, take this opportunity to acquaint the
public, that it fully appears, as well from the council-
books and journals of the Society, as from repeated
declarations, which have been made in ſeveral for-

NI mer Tranſa#ions, that the printing of them was al-
= ways, from time to time, the ſingle aC&t of the re-
i ſpeQtive Secretaries, till the Forty-ſeventh Volume.
- And this information was thought the more neceſfary,
E not only as it has been the common opinion, that they
D were publiſhed by the authority, and under the di-
A retion, of the Society itſelf; but alſo, becauſe ſeveral
= authors, both at home and abroad, have in their writ-
E ings called them the Tranſatons of the Royal Society,
= Whereas in truth the Society, as a body, never did
S intereſt themſelves any further in their publication,
S than by occafionally recommending the revival of
[= them to ſome of their ſecretaries, when, from the par-
= ticular circumſtances of their affairs, the Tranſattions
Z had happened for any length of time to be intermitted.
3 And this ſeems principally to have been done with a

view to ſatisfy the public, that their uſual meetings
were then continued for the improvement of know-
ledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their
firſt inſtitution by the Royal Charters, and which they
have ever fince ſteadily purſued. But the Society being of late years greatly inlarged,
and their communications more numerous, it was
thought adviſeable, that a Committee of their Mem-
bers ſhould be appointed to reconſider the papers read
before them, and fele& out of them ſuch, as they

a2 ſhould



ADVERTISEMENT.

ſhould judge moſt proper for publication in the future
Tranſa#tions; which was accordingly done upon the
26th of March #752. And the grounds of their choice
are, and will continue to be, the importance or fingu-
larity of the ſubjects, or the-advantageous manner of
treating them ; without pretending to anſwer for the
certainty of the facts, or propriety/of therreaſonings,
contained in the ſeveral papers ſo publiſhed, which
muſt ſtill reſt on the credit or judgment of their re-
ſpective authors. It is likewiſe neceflary on this occaſion to remark,
that it-is an eſtabliſhed rule of the Society, to: which
they will always adhere, neves to give their opinion,
as a body, upon any ſubject, either of nature or- art,
that comes before them. And therefore the thanks,,
which are: frequently '/propored from the chair,” to: be.
given to the authors of ſuch papers, as are read at
their accuſtomed meetings, or to the perſons, through.
whoſe hands they receive them, are to be conſidered
in no other light, than as a- matter of civility, in re-
turn for the reſpe&t ſhewn to the Society by thoſe
communications.