Boyle himſelf co. be
leſs exattly made than the other. The ſpecifick Gravity of Human Blood was found :
by Mr.{Bojle, to be to that of Warer, as 1040 to 1006;
though on account of difficulties by him mention'd,
he was far from being (atisfy'd with this Experiment,
and recommended the thing to farther tryals, i |

Title



( 1002 )

Theſe Experiments howeyer having hitherto paſt
uncontroverred, and it appearing from them, that the
ſpecitick Graviry of Serum was greater than that of
Blood in the proportion of 1190 to 1040, or of 8
to 7 nearly; it was a neceſſary conſequence of rhis,
that the Blood Globules were ſpecifically Jighter than
the Serum, and that in a, very. great degree, conſide-
ring the ſmall proportion, that the bulk of the Croſſa-
mentum was found to bear to that of the Serwm, from
other Experiments. From this it was, not improbably. conjeQured, that
theſe Globules were thin Veſicles fill'd with an Acreal
ſubſtance: and this Opinion ſeem'd to receive a great .
confirmation, upon it's being obſery'd, in viewing the
Circulation by a Microſcope, that a Blood Globule, in
paſſing through-a very narrow Veſſel, would change
its ſhape from a Globular to an Oval Form, and would
recover it's former Figure, as ſoon as it was. got thro'
the narrow Paſſage; which appearance ſeem'd to be na-
turally accounted for from the Elaſticity of the included
Aura,

Upon this conjeQure haye been built a, great many
Solutions of the Phanomena obſcrvable in the Animal
Occonomy, and the diſorders of it; particularly a late
ingenious account of Muſcular Motion, It. it net my
buſineſs at preſent to examine any of theſe, nor is it
my deſign to caſt any reflection upon their Authors,
who were led into this miſtake by the natural conſe-

quence of a matter of Fact, for the truth of which they
had ſo great an Authority, as thar of the excellenr Per-
ſon above-mentioned. But I hope, I ſhall eaſily be
pardon'd for enquiring into the ſoundneſs of the
Foundation, when the Superſtructure ereCted thereupon
is ſo conſiderable ; and the. following Experiments,
- however trivial in themſclyes, will not appear unworthy
the


( 1663 )
the conſideration of the Royal Socizty, if it be found,
that they may prevent us from running into Errors"of
the greateſt conſequence. x
Fep.l. 1 haye ſeveral times cut off a ſmall part
of the Craſſimentim, when by its adheſion to the ſides
of the Porringer it has ſcem'd co {im upon the Sur-
face-of the Serum, and haye put-it into another Veſs
= ſel fill'd with $:y99: upon which it has immediately
8 ſunk to the Bottom. 6h
Exp. ll. When' the Coagulum has been buoyd up in
= the Serms by the bubbles of Air adhering to its Sur-

7
© Face, | have ſeparated a ſmall part of it, where thoſe

=

= Bubbles haye been thickeſt, and pur it into a Glaſs of
5 Serum, in which it has ſom, as before.