He communicated, in 1839, to the Academy of
Sciences of the French Institute, a statement that bones of the Megatherium had
recently been discovered, accompanied with fragments of a carapace belonging in-
dubitably to the same animal; and he adds that the association of a bony armour
with the internal skeleton of the Megatherium can be demonstrated as surely by
@ priori reasoning as by the & posteriori fact; but he adduces no observations or
arguments from the skeleton in addition to those of which Dr. BuckLaxd had pre-
viously availed himself, simply affirming that © the Megatherium is proved to have
been certainly covered by an osteo-dermal carapace, by the disposition of the spinous
processes of the vertebra, by the angles of the ribs, by the articulation of the pelvis
with the vertebral column,” &c.; and he concludes by announcing © that the Mega-
therium was a gigantic species of Armadillo, most nearly allied to the diminutive
Chlamyphorus \.”

* Geology and Mineralogy considered with reference to Natural Theology, vol. i. pp. 160 and 161.

+ Ibid. p. 159.

} Recherches sur les Ossemens Fossiles, 8vo, 1836, tom. viii. p. 354.

$ © Recherches sur Vanciennet6 des Edentcs terrestres & la surface de la terre,” Comptes Rendus de VAcad.
des Sciences, 1839, p. 65. PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE MEGATHERIUM. 365

With regard to the fossils from South America, unequivocally referable to the
Armadillo family, I had myself pointed out the generic distinction of that large
quadruped, some bones of which had been transmitted along with the gigantic der-
mal armour by Sir WooDBINE Parisn, and proposed for it the name of © Glyptodon ”
in Sir Wooppixe Parsn's work on Buenos Ayres *; and afterwards, stimulated by
the general tendency of anatomists and palzeontologists to regard the Megatherium
as being, likewise, a gigantic Armadillo, I entered upon a critical review of all the
facts of the case which at that time had been obtained, and communicated the result
in a memoir to the Geological Society, read March 23, 18394. The general con-
clusions from this memoir were :—

1. The opinions of Cuviszr and Werss, in favour of the Megatherinm being s0
armed, rest on no better ground than the mere fact of bony armour of some gigantic
quadruped and the skeleton of the Megatherium having been discovered in the same
continent. 1

2.