Table 11,
Vor. LII, K the


[66 ]

the term found by ſuch table; and that, in general,,
about 7; of the term deducted, in any part of life,.
would not be unreaſonable, when the account is-
carried on.to the full extent of human life, eſpecially
if ſuch ſuppoſed duration is taken as a rule for price;.
for reaſons well known to you, by comparing- the-
reſpeCtive (31) value of preſent and future years- at
any rate of intereſt (32), and obſerving, that a-gain.
of time in the latter, would not be equal in value to,
the loſs of like time in the former,

Aﬀer many degrading compariſons above-men«
tioned, to the diſhonour of our capital, it may coun=
terballance them, to hear what this. advocate. has ;
urged for its healthfulneſs and longevity, on his own
experience, (Lec's Eſſay, p. 252,.253.)' I do not -
intend to diſparage it, by mentioning a place I have
known above 40 years, never famed-for- falubrity,.
and yet has produced as many. (may 1 ſay more?) per-.
ſons of go, and upwards, than London, . as would
appear on a fair proportion,. formed on the burials of *
cach, by.a:method too long to be laid before you at
preſent ; and;I am ready to oppoſe this, as I-did to
the former complaints, ſo to ,theſe boaſtings, being -
both alike ill-grounded and unreaſonable. As my objections extend to all the accounts Thave -
met with (perhaps I ſhould except Mr, Dupre's, if I.
could fee_it intire), you will naturally expe& what+
CO EOCUTIEE: FAVORS LO D#-4e%s” RY a

( 31) This, I find, has been noted by H.'B; in obſervation-on

Lee's Efay, 1739. p. 18: 21. 34.
(32) This makes hazard of time and hazard of value unequal in

Courſe,
I have


[ 67 ]
I have to offer more perfe& in their ſtead, The
ground-work I preſent would lie in a nut-ſhell (33);
the edifice would ſupply matter for ſuch another
letter: and, I think, you will be glad to have a little
reſpite, to conſider of this, and judge how far ſome
facts herein ſet forth ought to be regarded, without
which, I preſume to affirm, all computations of value
+ Will be found inconſiſtent, and very faulty in ſome
S ©ther parts of life.
2 Upon ſuch an occaſion as this, I hope you will
= excule the intruſion and tediouſneſs of a new viſitor,
who aims at further improvements on this ſubject,
both in matter and form, I willingly ſubmit the re-
5 ſult of not a little time and'pains to your ſuperior
2 judgment, and beg you will either frankly pronounce
Z it time miſpent, and labour in vain, or elle, by your
2 kind directions, enable me (if the ardor of preſent in-
Z clination ſhould continue) to improve and finiſh a
s ſcheme, perfeCt enough to bear public view, I can
s only fay, I ſhould endeayour to keep clear of the
Z objeQtions made to other tables, and to ſupport what-
Z. ever I advance by real fats, or very ſtrong probabi=
= lities, and to make the whole conſiſtent and uniform,
2 1 do not enter upon-any computation of values, nor
= Prefer either of the two methods'(34) for finding
S them; let the facts, upon which they depend, be
E better aſcertained. In order to/this, the ſole obje&
©

Ee OI ILL ITEENAE OY: LIULFLEREEIC LILIES” FEATS) REIN

(33) See p. 69. letters (x), (b).

(34) One propoſed by Dr. Halley, and approved by Mr.