To the
three following days, they have given the names of the
three moſt famous Bodies of the whole Univerſe, becauſe
they ſaw the Baſe, Increaſe, Lite aud Motion of all Terre-
Tilitiitiili 2 ſtrial


(2020) ;

{trial Bodies to depend of them: and thereforethey call
the ſecond day of the week Soidagh, the third Mondagh,
the fourth Ti/4«gh, the day of Diſa, or the Parth, "As for
the reſt of the days, they call'd them by the namesof their
three greateſt Heroes ; The fifth day ofthe week, Odenſ-

_ dagh, trom Odinwr, or Atins, the Deity of War both by
Land and Sea; that is, performing the parts both of Her-
eles and Neptne: The fixth Torſdagh, from Thorws, or
Japiter, the chief Judge and Lord of the Earth : The fe-
venth. Fredag, from Freia, the Wife of Jupiter, nor only
the Goddeſs of Wedlock , but likewiſe Queen"of the
Northern Amazorer, under whoſe conduQ and example
they. learnt to handle both Diſtaff and Arms. The word June, he fays,” in their Language, fignifies a
whole; or round thing, and that from thence the Jure
Feaſt is ſo: call'd, becauſe it follows the converſion and
return of the Jun to their Anceſtors, having been ſome
time abſent from them, © And he gives an account ofthe
Sports us'd at that Feaſt, much anſwering 'to, onrs at
hriſimes 3. and of the Sacrifices then us'd : And ſhews-
that many of the Poets Fables are in their nature ſuch,
that they cannot be apply'd with the" like(ſueceſs to-any
foreign Kings, Commanders, Places, 'or Heaven. | He ob-
ſerves, as often as Learned men have” aflerted Ofiris to
be the Sun, they made his Country withour all heſitation |
:0:be the North, ſince they conld not get the fiction con- ..
cerning the Sun's Country, but from the North itſelf : |
for fince the Sin is'not; onthe Earth, whatſoever is read
concerning his Conntry"on the” Earth, muſt be referr'd
to certain lights or aſpe&ts of him, avalſoto the\Kinds'or =
points of his riſing or ſecting in the Horizon, inhabired" |
by. this or that Nation 3 and ſo in'this reſpect the North _
was faid to be the Country ot'the Sun, becauſe-therehe
'feem'd to have fotind fotne 'reſt or refreſhment (from his
bours And he fays many Fables for theſe-cauſes are

- got only explain'd unſuccebfully,” nay, fidiculouſly and


| (2021)
uſcleſly, as manylearned men confeſs z but alſo have lain
neglected even to. this day, for abont, 40, Ages. To wit,
No, Man has took upon him narrowly to inſpect Nature jt-
ſelf; the North, the Poems of the Sca/dr, the afpett of -
the Sun and Moon in thoſe Northern places, or the won-
derful turns and changes of the Farth, Sea, Heavens, and
Seaſons there, wholly unknown to Jrdia, {Egypt and
Africa. Therefore he here takes upon him to prove that
all Fables of this kind were invented to repreſcnt the
motion of the $un in-theſe places, and afterwards carricd
Ro /&gypt, and withal to draw forth their genuine ſenſe,
Soth from Nature, and the proofs of the Learned, He
=tells us from Herodot#s, the Greeks were commanded by
Rhe Oracle of Doors to preſerve religiouſly all the vari-
ous names of the Gods, brought to them by the Zyperbo-
eans 3 nor was it any way lawful for them to change
-Fuch for Greek Names, And here, - as Well as generally
throughout his Book, he makes ont from the Etymology
20k the Names of the Gods, Heroes and other things rela-
Zting to them, \that they generally own a Gothick Original,
ZAnd-ſays. the ;delign-of their Pocts ſecms as learned as
elegant, who, ſecing the Nature, Names and Number of
EPerſons to agree with-the Names and Namber_ of T;.ings |
zthernſelyes,-- that theſe ought to be ſo jozn'd and fitted
Etogether, that they might ſeem to. agree together alſo in
Stheir very Names 3 of which he gives ſome.