It is possible that similar
Gifferences will present themselves in other bodies which are not organized, or taken from
living animals. It is sufficient for my present object to have proved that the secondary
electromotor power of a nerve requires for its development the integrity of structure of
the nerye itself, but not the excitability of the living animal, and to have determined
UDCCCLXI, 3p

PROFESSOR MATTEUCCT'S ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGICAL RESEARCHES. 37L


372 PROFESSOR MATTEUCCI'S ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGIOAL: RESEARCHES.

rigorously tliose differences of this power which haye led me to ground the explanation
the electro-physiological phenomena which take place on the opening of the circuit ® |
a fundamental physical fact. ba |

The arrangement which T have for a long time adopted in the study of these Pheno-
mena is well known, and has been described in several works on physics and physiology.

- This arrangement consists of a frog prepared after the usnal manner of Garyaxt, and:
then cut in half at the symphysis of the pelvis. If a continuous current is passed from
one limb to another for fifteen, twenty, or thirty seconds, according to the force of the
current, it is known that the opening of the circuit is accompanied by violent contractions
of the limb traversed by the inverse current. - These contractions depend, as IT showed
many years ago*, on a particular state of the nerve; and in fact the contractions are
obtained and continue when the circuit is interrupted by cutting the nerye near the spine,
but they are no longer produced if the nerye is cut near its insertion in the muscles of
the leg. | v

My object in this memoir has.been to prove that the particular state of the nerve aboye
described consists of Secondary electromotor power, that is, in a well-known physical
phenomenon. I complete this demonstration by a very simple experiment. After having passed a
eurrent throngh two lumbar nerves of a fowl in the way already described, I lay the nerye
of a galvanoscopic frog on different points of these nerves, precisely at the instant im which!