This being clearly understood, the invariable occurrence of contraction,
when the posterior part of the brain or the anterior half of the cord was irritated, in the
experiments of April 14th and 16th, 1857Þ, must be regarded as strong presumptive
evidence, if not absolute proof, that they as well as the posterior half of the cord pres
side over the arterial contractions in the feet, although, as shown at page 615, they
appear to exert their influence only through those roots of nerves which take origin
from the posterior regions of the cord. On the other hand, the cerebral hemispheres
seem to take no part in this function, 80 far at least as it is safe to draw any inference
from the negative evidence derived from a single experiment performed upon them, vi

that mentioned at page 610. The fact that the removal of a large portion of the cord is followed by only temporary
dilatation of the arteries, provided that a part remains which furnishes roots of nerve
for the posterior extremities, is in harmony with the transient effects which were een t0
be produced upon the vessels by partial division of the roots of the nerves within the
spinal canal in the experiments of April 8th and 11th, 1857$. In both these cases the
arteries of the webs appeared to recover their contractile power completely, although the
leg remained nearly, if not entirely, paralysed; which seems to indicate that a few fibres of
the nerves for the blood-vessels of a part can supply the place of the rest more perfectly 4
than is the case with the ordinary nerves of sensation and motion. This peculiarity of

* Vide page 616. + Vide page 618. t Vide pp. 611, 613. $ Vide pp. 609, 616



REGULATING THE CONTRACTIONS OF THE ARTERIES. 623

* yaso-motor ” nerves is more strikingly illustrated by the first experiment mentioned
is paper*, in which it may be remembered that, the arteries of the webs completely
yered their usual powers of varying their calibre within half an hour after division
the sciatic, although this is an operation which abolishes for days at least all sensation
voluntary motion in the leg.