I have no doubt,
when it is known how much such information will tend to
illustrate the history of the earth, and particularly that of gems,
the spirit of inquiry, 80 laudably afloat in. British India, will
be directed to attain it,

I have not heard of any metallic veins being found in Corun-
dum, unless a stone which ALoxnso Barsa, lib. i. c. 13. de-
scribes, should give an instance, «4 The Chumpi, s0 called
« from its grey colour, is a.stone of the nature of emery, and


422 Ar. GrEviLLE on the

< contains iron; it is of a dull lustre, difficult to work, because
< jt resists fire long,” It is found at: Potosi, at Chocaya, and
<« other places, with the minerals negrillos and rosicleres.”

Having mentioned the varieties of crystallized and amorphous
Corundum, and the miscellaneous facts relative to my collec-
tion of that substance-from India and China, it might be suf-
ficient to give an 7con of the crystal, and close a paper already
prolix ; but, having with satisfaction observed, within the last
years, the science of mineralogy gaining ground in Great Bri-
tain, from the knowledge acquired by several gentlemen who
have examined: the mines, and formed personal acquaintance
with the most experienced and learned men: on the Continent,
and also from ingenious foreigners, who have communicated
their observations on English fossils, and-connected them with
the most approved systems,..it may: perhaps be accepted as a
sufficient apology for what follows, that I consider it as a desi-
deratum to English mineralogists, to be invited to a- preference
of permanent-characters, which the study of crystallization has
collected, and which promises to be a certain method of ascer-
taining the laws. by which elective attraction arranges and
combines molecules of matter. It is true, the progress of crystallography has been extremely
slow, and different nations have contributed to its present
improvement... It is rather remarkable, that the earliest trea-
tisze on metallurgy, of authority, was published in Italy, by
Vanoccius BirinGuccivs, just before AGRIcoLa published
his treatise in 1546 in Germany; and the first treatise on the
structure of crystals I know, is also from Italy, by NicoLas
STENo, Prodromus Dissertationis de Solido. intra Solidum na=
turaliter contento.