I had very little doubt that
this was the volatile alkali: for it is well known, that/putrid
animal ſubſtances frequently abound with: that falt; but have
never, I believe, been found; to contain-a fixed alkall i ina diſ-
engaged ſtate, With a-view, however, more decifively to
determine this. point,/I tried +the following experiment. A
quantity of cancerous matter, diffuſed through diſtilled - watery
was introduced: into |a glaſs: retort to which-a receiver was
adapted. The mixture was flowly diſtilled by means'of aſand
heat 3 and-a ſmall quantity. of the liquor-which:came over'into
the receiver being poured into an. infuſion of | Brazil wood, -ins |
ſtantly imparted to-it-a deep red colour. 1909/9179 67]
Hence it clearly appears, that- the- alkali -contained- in the
cancerous matter was the volatile, | becauſe it-was/ſeparated; by |
diſtillation with a heat which .did-not exceed'that of boiling
water. 7 vos
It ſeemed extremely probable, that the diornenridain
alkali was united to'the atrial fluid with which the matter of
cancer is impregnated, Of the truth of this fact I was. pers
ſuaded by obſerving, that the ſmell of the! cancerous matter
was:greatly increaſed by the addition of the 'vitriolic acid: ;for
I could ſcarcely avoid concluding, that this: phznomenon aroſe.
from an union. between the acid, and alkali,.in' conſequence of
which the odoriferqus, principle was 'extricated |by1a ſuperior.
attraQtion, |



of Cancer, and'on Animal Hepatic Air, 359

attraQion.” This concluſion will be/confirmed by experimntints

to'be recited itithe ſequel, which prove, that the volatile alkali

is capable” of 'eritering 'nto'a'! 'chemiCal &6mBiiiition” with the

Aerial Auid contained in'the matteriof Gincer, 7 &! :

Of the air extricated from cancerous matter, and from other
animal \ſubpances, by aifillation. X }

5 A portionof matter fromacancerous breaſt was diffuſedthrough
Jiſtilled water, and introduced into a ſmall coated: glaſs retortz
Iphich was gradually expoſed to heat in a ſand bath till the bottor
If the retort became red-hot.'/ The-neck of the latter was-mtro-
guced below: an inverted jar filled with water,j and /a-quantity
of air was received-in the jar, which-was found to conſiſt!of the
Zpmmon air contained in the- retort; "T'wo: meafures''of 'ity
ixed with-one of nitrous air,/ occupied the: ſpace! of a- little
ſs than two meaſures; This portion-of-air |was'ſtrongly ims
P gnated/ with the” peculiar ſmell of the” cancerous matter. S The heat continuing -to-increaſe, the water-began to! |boil,
nd a.large.quantity' of aqueous vapour! aroſe; which, -as-ſoon
, 'S it-came into conta&t with the common air, produced'a white
Hoke. 'The ſmell that was-now/ perceived: was remarked by
on who were preſent to be fimilar to that of freſh animal
ances:when: they are boiled.