Uxwin, T
entertain hopes of rendering the researches now in progress of such a character as fully
-= to Justify the application of the word wsefut, which of all others is probably the best

Z calculated to express the true value of these investigations.
&
>

= Formule of Strength relative to Cylindrical Tubes.

8 The strain which the material of a cylindrical vessel undergoes, when a uniformly-
= distributed external pressure is applied to it, is very different from the strain produced
S when the pressure acts internally. In the latter case the material is equally extended
x throughout all its parts, and its cylindrical form is preserved at all stages of the
'E Prexure, with the exception of a small portion closely bordering upon the inflexible

EVlates closing the extremities. The tube under a high internal

S Prexsure will asume the form represented in the annexed dia- Oy
gram, and the relation of the force of rupture to that of resist- |
ance will be approximately expressed by —
En, dS T5 LEST: H
P==Pp— (

Where P represents the pressure requisite to produce rupture, E the ultimate resistance
of the material to extension, D the diameter of the tube, and þ its thickness ; whereas
in the former case, the material, being compressed, becomes crumpled in longitudinal
lines near the middle; the tube loses its original cylindrical shape at and near to that
part, whilst the portions towards the extremities being supported by the inflexible end
| Plates, retain, or nearly retain, their original form ; 80 that, in fact, the material virtually
| Tisting compression is the comparatively small portion at and near the middle, and


404 MR. FAIRBAIRN ON THE RESISTANCE OF TUBES TO COLLAPSE.

which, to a certain extent, is independent of the length of the tube, whilst the

producing the compression is always approximately proportional to the lo;

Section. Now let us assume for these tubes,—

P' = the external pressure of the fluid in Ibs. to produce rupture or collapse ;

P = this pressure Per 8quare inch ;

R = the resistance of the material to compression or to crumpling ;

L = the length of the tube in feet;

D = the diameter of the tube in inches;

j = the thickness of the plates in inches;

p = the pressure P reduced to unity of length and diameter, or =PLD;

C. «, constants to be determined from the data supplied by the experiments.