I am prepared, however, to place the fact beyond all possibility of doubt;
for a cursory inspection of my preparations is sufficient to show that a complete and
complicated decussation actually takes place. But still the real composition and ele-
mentary structure of the pyramids, as I shall now proceed to show, has not hitherto
been accurately described.

(10.) Until the commencement of the present century, it was believed by those who
admitted the fact in question, that the anterior' pyramids are formed by a decussation
between the anterior columns of the spinal chord. Ro8ENTHAL || corrected this error by
pointing out the important fact that the fibres of decussation proceed from the lateral,
columns; but at the same time he thought that from the latter the whole of the pyra-
mids are formed as new or separate structures by running along the fissxure between
the anterior columns, which they thrust aside in their course. Such is still the general
opinion, but such is not the correct one, as I shall endeavour shortly to explain.

(11.) At the lower extremity of the human medulla oblongata (figs. 10 and 11, Plates
XII. and XIIT.), the posterior and lateral white columns are broader and deeper, but the
anterior (1) are in every way less than in the dorsal or lumbar region. The central canal
is entirely closed by a mass of granular matter, and is much nearer the bottom of the

quidem, quas nunquam, cum spe inquisivissem, vidi decussari, aut ad obliquos se secare angulos.” —Elementa
Physiologizw, lib. x. tom. iv. p. 80.

* Trattato dell' Apopplesia, cap. iv. p. 13. - As the work is uncommon, and I have not seen the passage
that is referred to anywhere quoted, T here subjoin the principal portion. © Arrivati all intorno, e ultimo
velame si & os8ervato, che tutto quel caudice al di fuori si pud as80migliare ad una treccia di Donna,
posciache molti manipoli di fibre rette s0no 8oyraposti & molti trasversali, molti obliqui alli trasyersali, eb alli
retti, e 8eguitando questo intrecciamento ciascun ordine ritorno a s0yraporsi, e sottoporsi, sinche le dette
fibre escano dalla treccia trasversalmente per formare li nervi spinali, che 80n0 ne i lati.”

+ Lettres d'un M6decin des Hopitaux du Roi.