The strata of bituminous wood (called Bovey Coal) found
at Bovey, in Devon; which exhibits a series of gradations, from
the most perfect ligneous texture, to a substance nearly ap-
proaching the characters of pit coal, and, on that account, dis-
tinguished by the name of Stone Coal.

3. And lastly, the varieties of pit coal, 80 abundant in many
parts of this country, in which almost every appearance of
vegetable origin has been destroyed. The three examples abovementioned, appear to form the
extremities and centre of the. series; but as, from some local

* Account of a submarine Forest on the East Coast of England, by Dr, Corr za
de SexRa, Phil, 'Trans, for 1799, p- 145.


of some of the Principles of Vegetables into Bitumen, &c. $89

circumstances, the process of carbonization, and formation of
bitumen, has not taken place in the first instance, and as these
effects have proceeded to the ultimate degree in the last, it seems
most proper that we should seek for information, and for positive
evidence, in the second example, which appears to be the mean
point, exhibiting effects of natural operations, by which bitumen
and coal have been imperfectly and partially formed, without
the absolute obliteration of the original vegetable characters ;
and, although I have selected the Bovey coal as an example,
because it is found in this country, we must recollect that
Similar substances, or strata of bituminous wood, are found in
many parts of our globe; so that the example which has been
more immediately chosen, is neither rare nor partial.*

The nature, however, of the various kinds of bituminous wood,
may in some respects be difterent ; but this I have not as yet
had the means of ascertaining ; I shall therefore only state the
facts resulting'from experiments made on Bovey coal, and more
especially on a peculiar bituminous substance with which it is
accompanied. But, before I enter into these particulars, it will
be proper to mention a very remarkable schistus, with which
I was, some months since, favoured by the Right Hon. Sir
Jostepny BANKS.

* Strata of bituminous wood are found in various parts of France, in the vicinity of
Cologne, in Hesse, Bohemia, Saxony, Italy, and especially in Iceland, where it is
known under the name of Surturbrand,


399 Mr.