S With regard to the manner in which the abnormal condition of the blood was brought
5 about in these cases, it has been already mentioned in Section I. that the galvanic cur-
Prent produces no increase of the adhesiveness of the red corpuscles of blood outside the
S body; but after what has been stated in the last Section, the reader will see no reason
Z to think such an effect likely. It may, however, seem not improbable that the galvanic
S Shock might, by its direct action upon the blood within the vessels, reduce it to the
= 8ame condition as if remoyed from the body. But that this was not really the cause of
Z the congestion, was clear from the fact that in the parts les intensely affected, where the
= corpuscles still moved slowly though possessed of considerable adhesiveness, the same
2 condition continued long after all the blood which was in the vessels when the shock
Z yas transmitted had passed away. In this case therefore, as in all the others which we
= have considered, the blood was affected. secondarily to the tissues. This being established,
5 the natural interpretation of these experiments appears to be, that the portion of the
— Web affected yas, as it were, stunned by the shock, and its functions snspended like those
S of the brain; the resolution of the inflammation, like the return of volition, depending
E Mn recovery of function on the part of the tissues concerned.
= From such considerations as these, it appears that all those agents which produce inflam-
matory congestion when applied to the web, though differing widely in their nature, agree
in having a tendency to inflict legion upon the tissues and impair their functional activity.
+ But powerful as are. the arguments thus obtained by inference, it is very desirable to
confirm them by direct.observation, and it fortunately happens that the cutaneous pig-
mentary system of the frog is a tissue which discharges functions very apparent to the
Fe, 80 that it is easy to trace their modifications under the influence of irritation.