The particulars form the third volume of the © United States Japan Expedition,” and it
contains more than 700 quarto pages, of which one-half are engraved plates. Mr. JoNEs
appears to be an honest, zealous, and most persevering observer. * Although,” says he,
+ for 8ix consecutive months, 80 8ick as often to be unable to walk or stand without sup-
port, I still kept to my work; and the result, whatever it may be worth, has the merit of one
uniform Jfgraant trained by some experience, and stimulated, I know, by deep earnest-
nes in the cause.” His eye, too, must be powerful beyond the average of men, for he
Says, * I could, in clear nights, with the naked eye, easily make out stars of the 6th, and 1
sometimes thought of the 7th magnitude, through its (the zodiacal light's) densest parts.”

In fact, while reading the introduction to the volume, I found everything to admire,
until on page xi came this paragraph :—* There is no mention made in any books on the
zodiacal light, of any differences in the light itself; but I very s0on began to notice that
there was a stronger light at the central part, or along the axis: while, beyond this, ON
either side, and also above, a dimmer kind of light extended itself, as if the matter giving
us this light was more condensed at its central parts, and was thinned out beyond.”

L cannot but wholly dissent from the opinion expressed above as to the publications


P ON THE PEAK OF TENERIFFE. 493

* of others than Mr. Joxgs, and am perhaps not less qualified to do 80, as I have long since.

both in writing and in engraving, endeavoured to illustrate that same remarkable Shading
- off of the light; and in doing s0, gave it not as anything new, but as in the opinion of
- every astronomer, a leading feature in the appearance of the phenomenon, and a pro-
- bable explanation of much discordance between different observers. The shading off is, in fact, so very perfect over the whole extent, and the light, even
at its maximum point of intensity. low down in its axis, s0 faint for human vision, that
two different eyes, or two different degrees of transparency of the air on one and the
same generally clear night, will entirely alter the apparent boundaries and size of the

Alight.