So far, therefore, as can be proved þy similarity in chemical
properties and analysis, the magnetical pyrites is indisputably a
natural sulphuret, completely the same with that which till now
has been only known as an artificial product; but, that the
mind may be perfectly satisfied, another question must be
solved, namely, how far do they accord in receiving and re-
taining the property of magnetism ? Common pyrites do .not
appear to affect the magnetic needle, or, if s0me of them slightly
act by attraction, (which however I never could perceive, nor
recollect to have read in works expressly relating to magnetism, )
yet they do not possess,, nor appear capable of acquiring, any
magnetic polarity. As, therefore, the iron of pyrites is un-
doubtedly in the metallic state, and in a considerable proportion,
the destruction of this characteristic property of metallic iron,
must be ascribed to the other ingredient, sulphur,

But we have lately seen, that a natural combination of iron
with 36.50 or 37 per cent. of sulphur, is in possession of all the
properties supposed hitherto to appertain (in any marked degree)
almost exclusively to the well known magnetic iron, ore; and
that the combination alluded to is strictly chemical, and not (as
at first might have been imagined) a mixture of, particles of
magnetic iron ore with common pyrites,*

This is certainly very remarkable; and it induced me to exa-
mine the eſfects produced by sulphur, on the capacity of metallic

* This has been sufficiently proved, by the facts which haye been stated ;" I shall
however add, that upon digesting a mixture of the powder of common pyrites and iron
\ filings in muriatic acid, I only obtained hydrogen gas, exactly as if I had employed the
Kon filings without the pyrites,


of the magnetical ,Pyrites, &c. 331

iron ſor receiving and retaining the. magnetic. properties. I
therefore prepared some sulphuret of iron,; by adding a large
quantity of sulphur to fine iron wire, in a_moderate red heat,

The internal colour and Jlustre of the product, were not. very
unlike those of the magnetical pyrites;\ and,: after the mass
had been placed during a few hours between magnetical bars,
I found that it possessed s0, strong a degree. of polarity, as to,
attract or repel the needle completely.round upon its pivot ;, and,
although several weeks have elapsed since, it has been remoyed
from the magnetical bars, it till retains its power, with little
diminution ; like the magnetical pyrites, however, in its natural
state, it is not sufficiently powerful to attract and, take up, iron.,
filings. danny myrſeytis :

But this sulphuret| did not contain s0 much sulphur as, the
magnetical pyrites; I therefore mixed some, of it, reduced; to
powder, with a large quantity of Sulphur, and subjected it to
distillation in a retort, which was at length | heated, until, the
intire-bulb became; red. b =

The sulphuret, by this operation, had assumed yery much the
appearance, of the, powder, of, common , pyrites,, in; respect to
colour ; but, in _its chemical properties, $uch as solubility in
muriatic acid, with the. production: of . sulphuretted hydrogen 4
gas, as well as. inthe nature of the precipitates it afforded, with
prussiate of potash and with ammonia, it ,perfectly resembled
the magnetical pyrites. Moreover, by analysis, it was found to
consist of gz parts of sulphur and 6 of iron; and although
(being in a pulverulent. state). its power, as to receiving and
retaining the magnetic property, could not s0 easily be examined,
yet, by being powerfully attracted by the magnet, with s0me


332 Mr.