The
Exervations of August 9 are the most important to this end: there were three draw-
2s obtained the same evening, and the lines grew visibly under my eyes: the red end
Eparently lengthened out from B to A; additional lines were seen every succeeding
Sment, and the old ones became better defined, causing nebulous bands at 85® zenith

ce to become groups of fine black lines at 91*® zenith distance. Looking at the
ne time to the notes of colour, the red scems continually to have grown, to the final

Wlhusion, at 91* zenith distance, of yellow as a pure colour, orange merging at once into
Fen. EContrasting now No. 1 with Nos. 2 and 3, we find, if we may overlook the two latter

ing been observed by reflected, instead of direct rays, that a zenith spectrum at the
level differs most notably from one on the mountain, by the greater extent of the

Wl end visible, and by the increased number of lines; and that, though it shows some
Sproximation to a low-sun mountain spectrum, it has some radical differences there-
9m. y
EProfexor STOKEs indeed snggests, that the deficiency of the red end of my high-sun
Suntain spectra may be due to the more luminous rays extinguishing the faint red ;
ind that if the former had been absorbed by a cobalt-blue glass, or the extreme red
eparated by refraction through a second prism, A might have been seen ; just as in fact
twas seen with the low-swn spectra, when the atmosphere acted the part of a snitable
tbsorbing medium ; and the suggestion is of extreme value for future experiments, though
tis proper to state, that on Teneriffe the magnifying power employed was such, as neces-
arily to throw the brightest part of the spectrum out of the field of view when the
Xtreme red was under examination. Red End of Shy Spectrum. No. 13 appears to show that a zenith sky spectrum on the mountain with the sun in
3x2


506 THE ADMIRALTY ASTRONOMICAL EXPERIMENT

the neighbourhood, does not differ much from the solar spectrum ; but Nos. 14, 15,
16 show that such a spectrum, with the swn somewhat low, as 20?, has neither lines n
light at the red end, but that they gradually increase as we try the lower regions of
sky, showing there the remarkable multitude of lines beyond D.

"Taking together the whole of the sky spectrums, 12 to 17, and comparing them
those of the sun, we find that C is not marked in cireumstances where it' might h
expected ; and when it does appear, it is overpowered by the © growing ” line in
direction of D.