The lunar spectrum
ad that of the blue sky were also similarly examined.
* So far for the Guajara experiences. At Alta Vista a similar optical dark room was

Tepared; but profiting by hints procured from the direct use of the line instrument at
MDCCCLV11T. 3x


504 THE ADMIRALTY ASTRONOMICAL EXPERIMENT

low altitudes, IT tried it on the sun at mid-day in the same manner; when an imm
increase in the number and definition of the black lines at the violet end took p
With the reflected ray, the two bars of H could but just be discerned as faint neb
streaks, B, C, and D being as sharp and as black as silver wires in a telescope ;
the direct ray the individual lines composing the bars of H could be distinctly separa
and many lines appeared indistinctly in the space beyond. The conclusion thence

be derived was, unfortunately, that our particular speculum did not reflect the violet
end of the spectrum ; and our observations were therefore not comparable in that I
even if they were in others, with standard observations elsewhere. 'The discovery was
made too late to enable a direct determination to be made for Guajara, but the method
was employed for Orotava when we returned there from the mountain a few days after,

Red End of the Solar Spectrum. "ot

In the accompanying Table (Plate XXXV.) are arranged the whole of the drawings ©
of the red end of the spectrums that were taken at the three stations, on the same scale
as FRAUNHOPER'S justly celebrated Munich engraving. 'The times and circumstances of
the observations being appended, will enable any one to judge of the reality of the facts:
purporting there to be represented. v |

Bearing in mind that great accuracy of position is not pretended, and that though
much care was bestowed on the general appearance, thickness, and definition of the lines. ©
the shortness of the time available was entirely inadequate to procuring a good drawing,
and that several of the diagrams should be employed together in deducing a result—
we may proceed to the examination. Comparing the eleven Teneriffe spectrums of the
Sun with FRaUnnoPER's, we can only assume identity in place of the lines A, a. B, C,
D, E., and 6: everything else appears differently.