That, in the formation of common martial pyrites, there
is a deviation from this law, and that sulphur becomes the pre-
dominant ingredient, which-is variable in quantity, but which, by
the present experiments, has not been found to exceed 54.34, per
cent. a proportion, however, that possibly may be surpassed in
other pyrites, which have not as yet been chemically examined.

6: That iron, when combined naturally or artificially with
36.50 or 37 of sulphur, is not only still capable of receiving the
magnetic fluid, but is also rendered capable of retaining it, s0 as
to become in every respect a permanent magnet; and the same
may, ina great measure, be inferred respecting iron which has
been artificially combined with 45.50 per cent. of sulphur.

7: That, beyond this proportion of 4.5.50 or 46 per cent. of
sulphur, (in the natural common pyrites,) all susceptibility of
the magnetic influence appears tobe destroyed; and, although
:the precise proportion which is capable- of producing this ef-
Fect;:has-not as-yet been determined-by actual experiment, it. is


of the magnetical Pyrites, &c. 337

certain that the limits are between 4.5.50 and $2.15; unless 8ome
unknown alteration has taken place in the state of the sulphur,
or of the iron, in the common martial pyrites.

8. That, as carbon, when combined in a certain proportion
with iron, (forming steel,) enables it to become a permanent
magnet, and as a certain proportion of sulphur communicates the
same quality to iron, s0 also were found to be the effects of phos=-
phorus ; for the phosphuret of iron, in this respect, was by much
the most powerful, at least when considered comparatively with
sulphuret of iron,

9, and lastly, that as carbon, sulphur, and phosphorus, pro-
duce, by their union with iron, many chemical effects of much
sIimularity, so do each of them, when combined with that metal
in certain proportions, not only permit it to receive, but also
give it the peculiar power of retaining, the magnetical properties;
and thus, henceforth, in addition to that carburet of iron called
steel, certain sulphurets 'and phosphurets of iron' may be
regarded as bodies peculiarly susceptible of strong magnetical
impregnation. Having thus, for the greater perspicuity, reduced the principal
facts of this Paper into a concise order, I shall now make some
general observations. It is undoubtedly not a little singular, that a substance like
the magnetical pyrites, which, although not common, has been
long known to mineralogists, should not hitherto have been
chemically examined, especially as mineralogical authors have
mentioned the analysis of it as a desideratum, The result of
this which I have attempted, proves that it is really deserving
of notice; for. thus we have ascertained, that the sul phuret of

XX-2


$33 Mr. HATCHETT's Analysis

iron hitherto known only as an artificial product, is also formed
by nature; and that the composition of this last, agrees with those
proportions of the artificial sulphuret which have been stated by
Mr.