The
purging now began gradually to abate, and ſoon after
the burning heat in the region of the ſtomach became

more


[ 667 ]

more tolerable, and inſenſibly grew better, the cam-
phor being no longer perceptible in the breath or
evacuations, Her drink now was water with the
addition of a little milk. The patient's ſpirits, which, by means of the great
irritation and feveriſh tumult the cauſtic tinfture had
excited, kept up ſurpriſingly, now began to fail her,

S and1he was with difficulty got into bed : where, after
Q@ complaining for a ſhort time only of a ſoreneſs in
S the firſt paſlages, ſhe lay ſweating profuſely for four
= hours ina very low deſponding condition.
5 A gentle opiate was exhibited, which took effect ;
D» and after a ſound \fleep of five hours the patient
'&» waked very caſy, took ſome of the ſperma cett mix-
Z ture, and had another fleep of three hours. She
= now found herſelf free from all her complaints; the
= previous ſlow fever, as well as the effedts of the
2 poiſonous tinCture, being entirely carried off,
, It is remarkable, that the patient found herſelf,
2 -.Ffor four days ſucceflively, in ſo happy a ſtate of caſe
= And tranquillity, as ſhe had never before experienced,
& and to this day enjoys a perfect ſtate of health.
5 Thus have I laid before you the true hiſtory of
& this caſe; for the ſimple relation of which I flatter
© anyſelf I need make no apology, when I refle&,
S that the practice of phyſic muſt derive much greater
S advantages from plain- hiſtories of matter of fact, and
&@ juſt deductions drawn from them, than from the
moſt ingenious hypotheſes and ſpeculative theories.
"Theſe were of baneful influence to the progreſs of
true knowlege, till your illuſtrious Society taught the
world the true method of inveſtigating the laws of
Vor, LI. 4R nature,


[ 668 ]

nature, by obſervation of fat, experiment, and ra-
tional deduCtion,

The following obſervations, which this. caſe natu-
rally ſuggeſts, ſeem to deſerve our attention.

1/}, That in any ſimilar accidents of ſwallowing
corroſive poiſonous ſubſtances, a quick and reſolute
adminiſtration of theſe fimple bodies, water and oil,
in a large quantity, ſeems to be the moſt effeCtual
method of preventing any bad conſequences, and far
preferable to the numerous boaſted antidotes, which
have been handed down to us.

2dly, That an emetic may be more” ſafely and
effeCtually adminiſtred, and its operation waited for,
after the acrimony of the poiſon hath been ſheathed
and blunted, and the coats of the ſtomach defended
from. its attacks, by a liberal uſe of water and oil;
than immediately after it is ſwallowed:

2dly, That as the flow fever and redundancy of
milk, as well as the poiſon, were carried off by the
copious diſcharge excited in the eaſy manner above-
mentioned ; might we not often hope for ſucceſs in
fevers occaſioned by ſimilar cauſes, plenitude and
obſtruftion, from plentiful evacuations, brought on
after the ſame manner, by ſimple, dilnent, and ſheath=

ing medicines ?
4thly, The camphor was undoubtedly of great
ſervice in curbing the- deſtruftive effefts of the.
euphorbium, by blunting its acrimony, and ſoothing
the nerves into an inſenſibility of irritation, and con-
{equently an incapacity of ſpaſmodic affe&tions. T
have tried the. 7inf, euphorb, cum camphord on a
horſe's.


{ 669 ]

horſe's leg ſeveral times, and find it not near ſo cauſtic
as without the camphor. And it is well known how
much camphor involves the ſpicula, corrects the acri-
mony, and mitigates the effe&s of cantharides, ſac-
charum Saturni, and rough, mercurial, and anti-
monial preparations.

5thly, To water and vil therefore we may juſtly
S add camphor as a powerful corre&tor and expeller of
» poiſons in general.