This probably has been- the opinion of the Abbe Hair;
for, in his extensive Treatise on Mineralogy lately published, I
cannot find any mention made of the magnetical pyrites, either
amongst the sulphurets or amongst the other ores of iron.


342 Mr. HaTonrTT's Analysis

In the mineral kingdom, a great variety of substances, and
even some of the gems, exert a feeble degree of attraction on
the magnetic needle, and sometimes also acquire a slight degree
of polarity;* but, as this wonderful property has only been
observed conspicuously powerful in one species of iron ore, this
has been always emphatically called the Magnet, and is said
to consist of metallic jron combined with from 10 to 20 per
cent. of oxygen. From the facts, however, which have been recently stated, we
now find that there is another natural substance, apparently
very difterent from the magnet in chemical composition, but
nevertheless approaching very nearly to it in power, which is
found in several parts of our globe, and particularly in a pro-
vince of this kingdom, where it constitutes a vein, running
north and south, of considerable extent, and several yards in
width and thickness. -

From the experiments also, which have been made on the
artificial preparation of this substance, we find, that it is capable
of receiving. the magnetic properties when the proportion of
sulphur amounts to g7 per cent. and is till powerfully attracted
when a much larger quantity of sulphur is present. There
is, however, some point at which all these effects cease, and
this point appears to be, when the sulphur is in s0me proportion
between 4,5 or 46 and 52 per cent, The preceding experiments
have also proved, that iron when combined with phosphorus,
likewise possesses the power of becoming a magnet to a very
remarkable degree; and, by the Similarity, in this respect, of the

* CavaLlLo on Magnetism, page 73.

+ In a future Paper, it is my intentiou to give an account of some comparative
analyses of the yarieties of this substance.


of the magnetical Pyrites. &c. 343

carburet of iron called steel, tothe above sulphuret and phosphuret,
a very remarkable analogy is established between the effects pro-
duced on iron, by carbon, sulphur, and phosphorus. Carbon, when combined in a very large proportion with iron,
forms the carburet of that metal, called plumbago: a brittle
substance, insoluble in muriatic acid, and destitute of magne-
tical properties.