Still higher up the hill we arrive at the church of Santa Maria; where in the suburbs of
Aci Reale, a lava, which TI believe to be the same, has a dip of only 99. If the red stratum, indicated in fig. 3 by the interrupted line above 0, z, on whicks the
inclined dolerite of the Bastione rests, had consisted sImply of a burnt soil derived from
the decompoxsition of an older and subjacent lava, we might haye snpposed the unusually
steep dip of 23% and 29® to have arisen from the accident of the newer current having at
this point overflowed the terminal slope of a preexisting lava; for when lavas come to
a halt (as is well exemplified by the newest of all the Etnean currents, that of 1852 in
the suburbs of Zafarana), they commonly end in a steep wall, 20 and 30 feet or often
more in height, and sloping at angles of from 20® to 35®, as represented at HH, fig. 3. But this hypothesis is rendered untenable by the fact that the stratum of tuff and lapilli
burnt red, is not the disintegrated surface of an underlying lava, but the upper part of
a series of strata of tuff and loose black sand containing boulders, deposits 8uch as we
find in the wide channels of torrents on the flanks and near the base of Etna. To explain, therefore, the steep inclination which the surface of the stratum (B, fig. 2,
P- 713, and s, fig. 3) had acquired before the lava G, F, C, B reached the present site of the
Bastione, I think it necessary to 8uppose that a sea-cliff (D, @, 0, ©) already existed, the
top of the cliff consisting of beds of brown tuff and loose black sand, forming the mass # as
above described, which as a whole was too incoherent, to produce a precipice, but which


-

"WHICH HAVE CONSOLIDATED 'ON STEEP SLOPES. 715

might, when the rocks below were undermined, have slid down and formed a slope of from
202 to 30?, as from d to 2, fig. 3. The Bastione lava, after flowing over the platform from G
to F and baking the underlying tuff at 5, 0, d, which it turned red, descended in a cascade
to the foot of the old cliff D; but the sea immediately resuming its efforts cut away the
new facing of lava B, C, F, and then encroached some yards further into the older rocks
from D to E, in the same manner as it had previously swept away the lavas A, B, C.
which formed the original eastward prolongation of RecureRo's seven currents.