The open rent
Smay imply the s8liding down of a portion of the mass at the time of the fracture ; in-
deed I could not look at the dip of this massive current (C), especially its central com-
Fpact layer, without, wondering that the whole has not, during the reiterated shocks to
Swhich this part of the mountain is subject, been hurled down into the valley below.]

Many geologists, on beholding from a distance several of these narrow strings or rills
Sof molten matter congealed on the surface of a great talus of sand and scoriz like that

below the Cisterna, may imagine that a cross section could never present to them any

appearances analogous to those which we witness in the Val del Bove or in the Atrio del

Fig. 18.—Appearance in a cross section of two juztaposed narrow streams of lava.
a oo i ye re Nona dere er TN INN
c

= Tre = ADE TT =

Cavallo. But we must remember that the lava above described is 50 feet wide, and if

the solid layer be 62 feet thick, it would be like @ in the accompanying diagram (fig. 13);

and if another similar current should flow down by its side, 80 that the outer and lateral
MDCCCLVIII. 5D


736 SIR CHARLES LYELL ON THE STRUCTURE OF LAVAS

scorie of each should touch and join in the middle of the section, then 6 would seem to
be a prolongation of « with merely one of those slight breaks or thinnings out and
resumptions of beds with which we are familiar. I may observe in concluding this subject, that if there be cases (though I did not
happen to see one on Mount Etna) where the melted matter has run out from the inte-
rior of a stream of lava which has descended a steep slope, 80 as to cause the superfticial
crust, together with the solid central layer, to fall and cover in separate pieces the floor
of the arched tunnel, this fact would not favour the notion of those who question the
analogy of ancient and modern formations in volcanic mountains. The result of the
collapse would be simply this, that a stratum of fragmentary and scoriaceous materials
of unusual thickness would be seen in the area of the downfall. Tighty inclined modern lava near the Montagnuola.