Here and in the adjoining Serra Intermedia, there are points where the volume of
the intrusive matter seems equal to the rocks which they penetrate, and we cannot there-
J fore be surprised if, under 8uch circumstances, we should see, in the lower half of the
= escarpment, dips exceeding 40?, an inclination which we cannot ascribe to the original
2 position of the beds. But after measuring the dip at numerous points, even here, where
S the dikes most abound, I found it rarely above 33?, while occasionally it only amounted

S to 15% Amidst all these variations T saw no case of a reversed dip, or a dip towards
© the Val del Bove.]
S The beds in the lower half of the Serra del Solfizio were probably from the first very
2 teeply inclined, for they consist chiefly of agglomerates, containing many angular frag-
S ments of lava, implying a neighbouring vent; and we need not perhaps attribute more
2 than a fifth part of their present dip to a tilting of the mass by subsequent dis-
E turbances. Z The fact that the steepest dips occur where the dikes are most numerous, may be
Z = thought by many to favour the doctrine that the high inclination of the beds was the
Z effect of the injection of melted matter into such innumerable fisxures. Without deny-
S ing that it may sometimes have been an auxiliary cause, we must, on the other hand,
S remember that the dikes are always nearest the great centres of eruption, and that
E there are three reasons why the original dips should be greatest near such centres ;—lst,
& because the heavier and larger fragments of rock thrown out of the crater fall nearest to
5 its margin; 2ndly, because the red-hot scoriz, as before mentioned, are sometimes
S agglutinated together ; and 3rdly (an influential circumstance too often overlooked), be-
cause streams of lava frequently stop short when they have crept but a small way down
= the declivity of the cone. [The effect in steepening its flanks of this midway halting of
many lavas, was strikingly exemplified high up on the north slope of Vesuvius, between
the years 1855 and the close of 1857, especially in July of the year last mentioned. 'The
inclinations of the recent lavas observed by Signor GUISCARDI and me, amounted to 30*

and 359®, and even for short distances, 39® and 42®. ]

[Supposed frequent injection of lava in beds conformable to tufaceous
strata, considered. It has been already hinted (p. 749) that S. vox WALTERSHAUSEN attributes much of the
upheaval of the mass of Etna to the intrusion of conformable lavas between previously
deposited layers of tuff and fragmentary matter.