A glance at the Map which accompanies this paper,
reduced by permission from S. vox WALTERSHAUSEN'S large * Atlas,” will show that

* Atlas, V. and VL. p. 4. WHICH HAVE CONSOLIDATED ON STEEP SLOPES. 761

@ very considerable number of cones do, as he observes, run in the zone first, alluded to,
namely, from Monte 'Trigona to Monte Egitto ; but the other parallel zone from Cubania
to Spagnuolo is 80 short and comparatively unimportant, that we might draw another
exactly at right angles to it (e. g. from Monte Peluso, S.E. of Bronte to Monte Santo.
near Linguagrossa), which would comprehend a zone of twice the length, and embracing
at least double the number of points of lateral eruption. On the other hand, if we take
the summit of Etna or axis of Mongibello as a centre, and draw a circle round it
having a radius of ten geographical miles, we find that nearly all the lateral cones, 200
or more in number, all carefully laid down by vox WALTERSHAUSEN, are embraced
Swithin this circular area, with the exception of a few south and south-east of Nicolosi,
Sand one or two others in the north, such as Monte Santo and Mojo; so that when we
Sspeculate on the causes of the present distribution of lateral cones, we find more con-
=nexion between them and the position of the great central focus, than with any
=supposed linear clefts running N.W. and S.K.
2 If, again, we contemplate the Map in reference to the spread of the lavas and make
=a circle round the same great axis, with a radius of about twelve geographical miles, we
*Þmbrace nearly all the currents which ever flowed from Etna, whether of modern or
medieval, or older date, except those near Catania of 1669 and 1381,

2 'This last fact may help to bear out the conclusion stated at page 742, that the pre-
Sent axis of Mongibello may be as old or older than that of Trifoglietto, and may have

-Salways been the chief focus of eruption.

> e[Recapitulation of PART IL. Z The following are the principal conclusions which I have endeavoured to establish in
Sthe second part of this memoir.
"= 1st. The dip of the ancient beds of crystalline and fragmentary matter seen in the
Zprecipices suwrrounding the Val del Bove, are not such as to support the theory of a
=Slinear axis, nor of a single centre of upheayal for Mount Etna.