Rhizome: Leipsic, 1859.

+ The 80-called © anomalous* 8tems of Nyctaginacee, Chenopodiacez, Menispermacew, &e., present cons
ditions which greatly increase the difficulty of laying down a typical character for the stems of Dicotyledons;
but researches at present in progress on these structures do not lead to our regarding them as really inter-
mediate between the Dicotyledonous and Monocotyledonous.

+ Philosophical Transactions, 1852, Plate XX. figs. 10 and 18. PROFESSOR HENFREY ON THE ANATOMY OF VICTORIA REGTA. 483

ed prosenchymatous cells, surrounded by vessels or ducts, the orifices of which form
- d of ring at the point where the central axis joins the cellular rind. This struc-
© ure prevails in all the Monocotyledonous roots I have examined *,
In Dicotyledons, on the contrary, the woody substance of the root, like that of the
© tem, always has the vyascular elements in the central region and the woody tissue out-
* ide it; in fact the root of a Dicotyledon corresponds essentially with the stem, omitting
© he central pith and the liber-structure of the bark. In Victoria the cross section of a
 oot (Plate XXXIT. fig. 53) shows that the centre is occupied by the vascular structure,
© he large open ends of the vessels appearing scattered in a central cylindrical region,
- which is bounded externally by a circle of compact, small-celled cellular tissue, which
ay be compared with the woody portions of the vascular bundles of ordinary Dicoty-
Sons. Perpendicular sections made through the region where the roots pass out from
Hestem, show that the bundles of vascular tissue destined for the root become collected
-Sgether into a solid cord before entering it, and they then occupy its axis; while simi-
Sr sections of the origin of Monocotyledonous roots show that a hollow cylinder of
cular tissue arises from the * fibrous layer” of the stem and passes out in this cylin-
Bie form, its centre being occupied by tissne passing gradually from parenchymatous
- to prosenchymatous, but directly continuous with the central region of the stem.