What imme-
diately lies upon me is, to prove, that the dodtrine of
the ſpecies of diapaſon had a connection with the
modes; and to juſtify the manner, in which I have
combined the two dodtrines in- the canon, and in. the
diagrams framed from it; With this view, therefore,
I ſhall dire&t my, arguments to the proving of the five.
following points:

1, That the doctrine of. the ſpecies of. diapaſon:

was a doctrine: of the modes..

2. That this doctrine was- not diſtin& from; nor
independent of, the harmonic, but ſo connected with
it, that a mutation, according to the one, produced
the alteration required by the other, :

3- That the ſpecies of diapaſon, as taken praQti-
cally-on the lyre, lay all at the ſame pitch. _

4: That this pitch was the diapaſon, between the-

ſtrings hypate meſon and nete diezeugmenon, as they
ſtand in the diagram.

5. 1 ſhall endeavour to ſhew, that it was the muſi-
cal doctrine, and- not: the harmonic, that. exhibited
the true character of-the modes, as conſidered in re=
{pect to their effects. To-begin with the firſt point: That the doctrine
of the. ſpecies of diapaſon was a doctrine of the
modes, might, perhaps, be inferred. from ſome of
the definitions given of a- mode.; but as-theſe defini-
tions are moſtly intermixed with, if not drawn ſolely

from, the harmonic doctrine, and hence have given.

room for diſputes, I ſhall reſt this point upon three

arguments, in, which the definitions are not con--

Firſt;

I;


[ 741 ]

Firſt, Becauſe the ſpecies are denominated after
ſeven of the modes, which could hardly have ariſen
from any other cauſe, than their conneQtion with
them.

2dly, Becauſe the whole reaſoning of Ptolemey,
in the fixth, ſeventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and ele-
venth chapters, of his ſecond book, tends to reduce
the modes to the number of the ſpecies of the dia-
paſon; which, as far as his opinion goes, is an cx-
preſs confirmation, that the muſical doEtrine was a
doQtrine of the modes.

3dly, Becauſe Ptolemey is not ſingle in this opi-
nion, as ſome may have thought, but is ſupported
in it by the Ariſtoxenian writers, who, though they
admitted thirteen modes, upon the falſe principle of
the harmonic doctrine, did, in fact, reduce them to
eight, on the very principle of Ptolemey, calling the
Hyperionian mode, which gave the ſame ſpecies with
the Mixolydian, the acuter Mixolydian ; and calling
alſo the Xolian, the graver Lydian ; the Ionian, the
graver Phrygian ; the Hypozolian, the graver Hypo-
lydian; and the Hypoionian, the graver Hypophry-
gian ; the former of all which modes gave, re-
ſpectively, the ſame ſpecies with the latter. So that,
to make their dofrine anſwer to that of Ptolemey,
there wanted but the reduction of one mode more,
which was their Hyperphrygian. And it is not to be
eonceived, but that they ſaw this mode alſo to be a re-
petition of the Hypodorian ; but as this repetition was
at the diſtance of an octave, and the other five were
repeated at the difference only of a ſemitone in pitch,
they could not have called this the acuter Hypodorian,
without uſing the ſame expreſſion in too great a lati-

Fa Cl tude


[ 742 ]
tude of ſenſe.