According as we fear'd,
one of them began on the ſecond Day, much afret ©
the ſame Manner with the Eldeſt, and the Small Pox
appear'd on the third Day, or rather an univerſal
redneſs all oyer rhe Skin, intetſperſed with many pur-
ple ſpors. There were none of theſe ſpors near the
Places of Inſition, which began to {well a little, as
uſual about the fourth Day, and the Small Pox did
riſe a little more about thoſe Places than elſewhere;
but Nature was too far oppreſs'd with the violence
of the Diſtemper, and tho* this Girl continued longer
than her Brother, and was not delirous as he was, |
yer ſhe died on. the (cyehth Day. T did nor reck6h
this Child in the Number of thoſe who received the |
Diſtemper by Inocularioh; for I rhobght there was |
ſufficient Reaſon to conclude, that ſhe had taken the
Infeion before 3 but of this I muſt lzaye you to
judge as. you pleaſe, I only give you a Relation of |
Facts. The other two continued well till che eighth *
Day, when they both fell ill together. The Small Pax
came out on. the tenth, of a vety 'good Sort, rhb?
more.in Number than ſome "others hid, and” they
both got very eN thro' the, Diſte<per Withour any
Indiſpoſition ſince, It was obſervable, that the Elder
of theſe Children, about the time of the Eruption,
had- many Spots appcard on him of a deep red Co-
lour, very much like thoſe of the other two Children,
which changed in them to Purples afterwards, "which
the



(43)

the Mother was very. much concern'd at, fearing they
wou'd prove the" ſame in this; bur when |the Small
Pox.came out, theſe Spors grew gradually. leſs, and ar
laſt quite diſappear'd\ The orher Child -bad-been ve-
ry ſubje& fro Convullions for a' long Time,” when ve-
ry young, and ir was afflicted' with the::ſame very
much, from the Time thar' the 'Fever \\came «on, till
< the Small Pox appear'd. gorT- bas +n
8. * The Twenty Seyenth was a marry'd Gentlewoman
aged abour Twenty Six; who got very well thro* rhe
SPiſtemper'; bur abour-a Week after was {cized with
Za very great Coldneſs and» Shivering, which were fol-
5lowed'by' a burning Hear, with 'a' great Pain! and
2 Diſorder in her Head, which continued | for  feveral
Hours: Sho'had ſome time ago an intermitting Fever,
Z which I took this to be a Paroxy(m'of, and expeRted
Sits return”; bnt ſhe felt no more of \it, and has" eyer
ſince continued in good Healrh.
4.