From its border a network of blood-vessels, accompanied by nerve-fibres, extends outwards
through the posterior and lateral columns (see fig. 1, Plate XIX.), and in the lumbar
region especially is very conspicuous around its pointed extremity, at the bottom of the

lateral fissure, where it divides the white columns into a number of Separate fasciculi of
different shapes and sizes.

posterior cornu,—an opinion which is perhaps founded on the statement of RoxLaxvo, that it forms the
posterior third of the grey crescent.

* In my memoir on the Medulla Oblongata I have written * eaput ecorn#s posterioris.” As T baye heard
that this has been objected to by an © eminent classie,” on the ground that the noun corn is indeclinable
in the singular number, I may here take the opportunity of informing any one who has made or may make
a 8imilar objection, that the expression is perfectly grammatical and correct ; for there is another and more
ancient form of the same noun, which makes both the nominative and genitive singular to end in ws. This
ancient form may be found in zeveral of the Latin classies—in CxL80Us, CxcgRo, Lucas, and the elder PLINY-
In Pax it occurs frequently : see Zistoria Naturalis, lib. viii. 29; lib. x. 90; lib. xiii. 51 and 52 lib. xxvill.
42, 46, and 64. I find that it has also been used by MerzLER in his dissertation De medulle 8pinalis avium
textura, Dorpat, 1855, I employed it on account of the distinetive character of its genitive ; but as it appears
necessary ab times to use the words cornu and cornua, because they are 80 generally known, TI shall confine
myself to the more modern form of the noun.

+ See the author's © Medulla Oblongata,” Philosophical Transactions, Part I. 1858, figs. 12, 15, 16, 19,
and 23, The grey tubercle of RoLaxvo, which reaches the surface on each 8ide of the medulla oblongata, is

generally considered to consist of the gelatinous 8ubs8tance, but in fact it includes the whole dilated extremity
of the posterior cornu, or caput cornu. MR. J.