The celerity with which the ball of the thermoscope acquired
heat, or cold, might be estimated by the velocity with which the
bubble of spirit of wine advanced, or retired, in its tube; but;
on the most careful and attentive observation, I could not per-
ceive that it moved faster when the ball was acquiring heat,
than when it was acquiring cold; provided that the hot and the
cold bodies, from which the calorific and frigoritic rays pro-
ceeded, were at the same relative distances. From these experiments, which I lately repeated at Geneva,
in the presence of Professor PicTer, Mons. de SaussuRE, M. SENEBIER, and several other persons, we may venture to con-
clude, that, at equal intervals of temperature, the rays which
generate cold, are just as real, and justas intense, as those which
generate heat; or, that their actions are equally powerful, in
changing the temperatures of neighbouring bodies,

On a $uperficial view of this subject, it might appear extraor-
dinary, that 80 important a fact as that of the frigorific radiations
of cold bodies should have been $0 long unnoticed, while the


and the Mode of its Communication. 123

calorific radiations of hot bodies have been so well known ; but,
if we consider the matter with attention, our surprise will cease. Those radiations by means of which the temperatures of neigh-
bouring bodies are gradually changed and equalized, are not
sensible to our feeling, unless the intervals of temperature be
very considerable; and the constitution of things is such, that
while we are often exposed to the influence of bodies heated
several thousand degrees (as measured by the thermometer)
above the. mean temperature of the surface of the skin, it is
very seldom that we have opportunities of experiencing the
effects of the radiations of bodies much colder than ourselves ;
and we have no means of producing degrees of cold which bear
any proportion to the intense heats excited by means of fire. From the result of the experiment of which an account has
Just been given, it is evident, that we should be just as much
affected by the calorific rays emitted by a cannon bullet at the
temperature of 160 degrees of FAYRENHE1T's scale, (=64, degrees
above that of the blood,) as by the frigorific rays of an equal
bullet, ice cold, placed at the same distance ; and that a bullet
at the temperature of freezing mercury, could not affect us much
more sensibly, by its frigorific rays, than an equal bullet at the
temperature of boiling water would do, by its calorific rays; but,
at these comparatively'small intervals of temperature, the radia-
tions of bodies are hardly sensible, and could never have been
perceived, much less compared and estimated, without the assis-
tance of instruments much more delicate than our organs. of
feeling. ' Hence we see how it happened, that the frigorific ra-
diations of cold bodies remained 80 long unknown.