The most constant and remarkable
distinctive feature of this type, however, is the presence of a large hemispherical cluster
of semitransparent tubercles in the centre of the spire (Plate ILL. fig. 10).

149. Having had no difficulty in setting apart a large number of specimens agreeing
very closely with each other, and differing from the rest, in all the foregoing characters,
I should have arrived at the unhesitating conclusion that this type deserves to take rank
as a species of Operculing distinct from the preceding, were it not for the circumstance
that every here and there T met with an example in which the differential characters
were less strongly marked than usual. Thus in some individuals which preserve the
general proportions of the spire, the green coloration is wanting, the large central
cluster of tubercles is replaced by a single tubercle of extraordinary size, the septal
bands of the neighbourhood are not more tuberculated than in many examples of the
ordinary type, and the rows of tubercles -over the chambers are either wanting alto-
gether, or are not more prominent than in many individuals of the preceding type.
'This evidence of the negative value to be attached to the number or prominence of the
tubercles as a specific character, is confirmed by a curious fact of an opposite nature ;
namely, that in certain individuals we find them developed to an extraordinary and
obviously abnormal degree (Plate V. fig. 9)—From the difficulty of deciding to which
type particular specimens are to be referred, I had been almost led to adopt the con-
clusion of the specific identity of this with the ordinary form ; when Dr. GovLD, of
Boston (N. E.), kindly placed in my hands s8ome Operculine, which had been collected
on the coast of Japan by the recent American expedition to that country, These speci-
mens combined in 80 remarkable a manner the most distinctive features of the two types,
—namely, the general form and proportions of the one, with the umbilical hemispheric
cluster of tubercles and the general abundance of tubercular elevations characteristic of
the other,—as to remove all doubt from my mind with regard to their specific identity.

150.