If, with the assistance of a microscope, we examine those
substances which supply us with the warmest coverings, such
for instance as furs, feathers, silk, &c. we shall find their sur-
faces not only smooth, but also very: highly polished ; we hall
also find that, other circumstances being equal, those substances
are the warmest which are the finest, or which are composed
of the greatest number of fine polished detached threads or
fibres. yew 7

The fine white shining fur of a Russian hare, is much warmer
than coarse hair; and fine silk, as- spun by the silk-worm, is
warmer than the same silk twisted together into coarse threads ;
as I found by actual experiments, an account of which has
already been laid before this Society, and published in the Phi-
losophical Transactions. I formerly considered the warmthr of natural and artificial
clothing, as depending principally on the obstacle it opposes to
the motions of the cold air by which the hot body is surrounded ;
but, by a patient and careful examination of the subject, I have
been convinced, that the efficacy of radiation is much greater than
I had supposed it to be. From the result of the experiment No. g1, we might be led
to conclude, that a very small part only of the heat which a hot
body appears to lose when it is cooled'in air, is in fact commu-
nicated to that fluid; a much greater portion of it being com-
municated to other surrounding bodies at a distance; and, in
one of my former experiments, a hot body was cooled, though it
was placed in a ToRRICELLIAN vacuum,


150 Count RUMrorD's Enquiry concerning the Nature of Heat,

These researches appear to me to be the more interesting, as
I have long been of opinion, that it must be by experiments of
this kind, (showing. in what manner the temperature of bodies :
are affected reciprocally, at different degrees of temperature, and
at different distances,) that the hypothesis of radiation must be
established, or proved to be unfounded. When I speak of heat as being communicated to air 7mme-
diately by a hot body which is cooled in it, I mean only, that it
is not first communicated to other neighbouring bodies, and then
given by them. to the particles of air with which they happen to
be in contact. In this last mentioned way, much of the heat, no
doubt, which a hot body loses when cooled. in air, is ultimately
communicated to that fluid,

I am far from supposing that the particles of air which, coming
into contact with a hot body, are heated in consequence of that
near approximation, receive heat in any other manner than that
in which other bodies, at a greater distance, receive it.