In Plate X'VIL. fig. 6, are shown
portions of two whorls (a, a, and 6, b) of the spiral canal, as shown in a section passing
near the lateral surface of the outer convolution ; proceeding from the outer side of
these, in like manner, we see the meridional canals (e, c, C, , c) with their first pairs
of diverging branches (see also fig. 12); whilst another set of canals (d, d, d) is seen to
proceed from the inner side of the spiral canals, tending more or less obliquely towards
the lateral surface; and the portion of the section which passes through the solid cal-
careous nucleus is seen to be perforated by numerous apertures (e, e) of corresponding
= diameter, disposed at pretty regular intervals. The relation of these to the canal-
a system is clearly evidenced by vertical sections, such as those represented in figs. 2 and
S 11; in which we see at «, «, the orifices of the spiral canals transversely or obliquely
= divided, and their connexion with the meridional canals 6, 6; and which further show
5 that the s8olid calcareous nucleus is itself traversed by straight canals, ec, c, c, which
= $pring from the successive convolutions of the spiral canal, and pass directly, without
>» branching or inosculation, to the external surface. That this remarkable portion of the
= canal-system does not fully show itself in the * casts ”” represented in Plate XVIII.
= fig. 12, is easily understood, when it is remembered that the whole substance traversed
Z by the straight canals having been removed, their long and slender casts would be left
> entirely without support ; and the points at which these have been broken off from the
= cast of the spiral canal are in fact to be seen on a careful examination, as there
= represented. S 189. It is shown by the comparison of vertical and horizontal sections of the shell
= with fragments obtained by fracture (Plate XVII. figs. 2, 7, 10, Plate XVI1L. tig. 11),
S that the meridional canals are in reality spaces left by the divergence of the two layers
D» of which each septum is composed, in the immediate neighbourhood of its junction
s with the spiral lamina which constitutes the external wall of the chamber (Plate XVII.