The analogy of other Foraminifera, moreover, renders it very probable that
the prolongations of the sarcode-body which reach the surface through the canal-system,
will reunite upon it 80 as to form a continuous investment oyer the whole ; and that
this will be especially the case on the spines, appears to be indicated by the provision
there is in the furrowing of the surface, for conveying the prolongations of the sarcode-
body to every portion of their exterior.

206. Thus, then, by interpreting the structural phenomena presented by Calcaring
according to the analogy of the facts which have been determined by observation of the
living animals of the allied type Rotalia, we seem almost indubitably led to the con-
clusion that the canal-system is specially destined for the formation and maintenance of
the © supplemental skeleton ;” serving to convey prolongations of the sarcode-body from
the segments which occupy the chambers, through the thick layer of solid shell-substance
that is secondarily formed around those chambers, and through the prolongations of
that layer which constitute the spines; and further, that it maintains a tolerably direct
communication between even the innermost chambers of the spire and the external
surface,—a connexion which would have been cut off by the interposition of the
< supplemental skeleton,” had not this been provided with some such system of inter-
vening canals.

207. One more fact remains to be noticed, which is of much interest as showing that
the growth of the spire and that of the © supplemental skeleton” are to a certain extent
independent of each other:—TI refer to the departure from the regular form that
frequently shows itself in the later turns of the spire, which (s0 to speak) often * run

Fig. IV,

Abnormal specimens of Calcarina.

wild” in a variety of strange modes, examples of which are 80 well represented in
Fig. IV. a-F, that it is unnecessary to refer to them in other than these general terms,


GENUS TINOPORUS :—HISTORY. 557

The extension of spines from the whole surface of the disk, in the mode represented in
Fig.