Js
and with its ends covered in the-same-; manner, but,with+its
vertical sides covered'ith a-single covering. of fine. Irish linen,
(such as is '80ld- in' London for about , 4s. -per- yard;): closely
applied to the body of therinstrument, was-filled with hot water
at the same time; and placed on the 8ame; table to cool, ir. This experiment Iasted many hours; and, in: that period, the
temperature of the water, in each of the instruments, was; care-
fully observed, and noted down,'a great number of times.

"The result of 'this' experiment '(the-;details/ of whiah have
already' been given) was'very remarkable. ,

While the instrument No.1,whose:8ideswere/naked, employed

#5 minutes ineooling from-the-paint-of, 94? to that-of 847, the
instrument No.. 2; whose sides-were-covered with linen, cooled
through the same interval in g65 minutes,”

Hence'it appears;that clothing may;:in ome. cages, expedite
the passage' of heat out of” a _ Ms instead of confining it
in it. . 223 C

Desirous of secing' evkather "m_ same do niaingr would, or would
not, expedite the passage of heat into the instrument; after having
svffered” both instruments/to -c6ol 'down''to- the temperature of
about 42*, I removed them into a warm room, in which the air
was at'the temperature of 62; and I found:thatthe-instrument
No. 8, which was clothed, acquired: heat TON dazed than
the other, No. 1, which was naked*-'

._ *..'The Jetails of this experiment {nb was 'nlide on hi 11th of March, 1803)

may be'$cen in page $3: br


.,and the Mode of its Communication. 91

'The discovery of these-extraordinary facts surprised me, and
excited all my, curiosity ;, and I immediately set about investi-
gating their cause.,;.,

As it is well, known; that air a with considerable obsti-
nacy /to' the surfaces of ome. s0lid. bodies, I conceived it to, be
possible, that the, particles of air in immediate contact with-the
surface of the cylindrical vessel, No. 1, might in fact be s0 at-
tached tothe metal as. to adhere to-it with, Some considerable
force; and,if that were- the, case,, as. confined air is known to
constitute a-yery/warm covering,.it appeared to me to'be possible,
that-the cooling of the vessel No,,z, might have been retarded, by
such-an/invisible covering. .of; confined, air;z\ which covering, in
the-experiment with the vessel, No.;2, had, been displaced,:and
ina great measure driven away, by the, colder covering, of linen,
by which the body of the instrament was closely embraced.

conceived, that; the linen must have accelerated the, cooling
of the instrument; either! by: facilitating; the approach. of ;a,suc-
cession of fresh particles of cold air, or by increasing; the effects
of radiation; and; with-a view-to elucidate that impoptant point,
the following experiments were, made,

'Exper.: No.2; Removing the linen with which the instrument
No. 2 was clothed, I now covered,/the-sides of that ,instrument
with a thin transparent coating of glue; and, when it was quite
dry and hard, I again filled the two instruments (No. 1 and No.2)
with hot-water,.and observed the times of their cooling as before,
© Regult,-or: time of. cooling! 10 degrees, reckoned from the
zoth'to'the 4oth degree above the temperature, of thejair in which
the-instruments were. exposed-to cool. [609 4

-Instrument No,1,\8ides naked - = =|/; 153 ,Min,
' Instrument No.;2; sides covered :vith one coating of glue 434 min. Ne


92 Count Rumrory's Enquiry concerning the Nature of Heat,

When we consider this experiment with attention, we shall
find reason to conclude, that if it were by facilitating the ap-
proach and temporary contact of a succession of fresh particles
of the cold air of the room to the surface of the glue, (which was
now in fact become the surface of the hot body,) that the
cooling of the instrument was accelerated, the metal being as
completely covered, and the air, supposed to be attached and fixed
to its surface, as completely excluded by one coating of the glue
as it could be by two, or more, two coatings could not possibly
accelerate the cooling of the instrument more than one; but if,
on the other hand, the cooling of the instrument in this experi-
ment was accelerated, not by facilitating-and accelerating the
motions of the circumambient cold air, but by facilitating and
increasing those radzations which are known to proceed from hot
bodies, I conceived that two coatings of the glue might possibly
accelerate the cooling of the vessel more than one. In order to
put this conjecture to the test, I made the following decisive
experiment.