Received Noyember 30, 1860,—Read January 10, 1861. IT is easy to 8ee that for an equation of the order n, the product of the differences of
x all but one of the roots will be determined by an equation of the order n, the coefficients
& of which are alternately rational functions of the coefficients of the original equation,
E and rational functions multiplied by the square root of the discriminant. In fact, if the
= = equation be @y=(a, ...Jv, 1)*=a(v—e)(v—P)..., then putting for the moment a=1, and
Z disregarding numerical factors, xD, the square root of the discriminant, is equal to
= the product of the differences of the roots, and @'s is equal to (&—B)(@—y)..., con-
2 8equently the product of the differences of the roots, all but «, is equal to MN O—gs,

: and the expressio0n T is the root of an equation of the order n, the coefficients of which

2 are rational functions of the coefficients of the original equation. I propose in the
= present memoir to determine the equation in question for equations of the orders three,
> four, and five: the process employed is similar to that in my memoir © On the Equation
2 of Differences for an Equation of any Order, and in particular for Equations of the
2 Orders Two, Three, Four, and Five*®,” viz. the last coefficient of the given equation is
EZ put equal to zero, 80 that the given equation breaks up into v=0 and into an equation
EZ of the order n—T called the reduced equation; and this being 80, the required equation
E breaks up into an equation of the order @—1 (which however is not, as for the equa-
S tion of differences, that which corresponds to the reduced equation) and into a linear
S equation; the equation of the order a—T is calculated by the method of symmetric
2 functions; and combining it with the linear equation, which is known, we have the
5 required equation, except as regards the terms inyolving the last coefficient, which terms
are found by the consideration that the coefficients of the required equation are semin-
variants, 'The solution leads immediately to that of a more general question; for if the
product of the differences of all the roots except «, of the given equation

gv=(#Lv, 1)"=a(v—e)(v—P)... =
(which product is a function of the degree n—2 in regard to each of the roots Þ, y, 5. .),
is multiplied by (z—ey)*>?, the function 80 obtained will be the root of an equation of
the order 2, the coefficients of which are covariants of the quantic (#Xz, y)", and these
coefficients can be at once obtained by writing, in the place of the seminvariants of the
former result, the covariants to which they respectively belong. In the case of the

* Philosophical Tranzsactions, vol. cl. p. 112 (1860).