Huxham alſo acquainted me, that he did not
believe the meteor had been ſeen at Plymouth,

II. The reverend Dr, Shipley, miniſter of Silcheſ-
ter in Hampſhire, a pariſh about 45 miles * W.S,W,

— ————__—

* Unleſs where itis otherwiſe expreſſed, I would be underſtood
to uſe all along the ſtandard Engliſh meaſure 'of 694 miles to a

degree,
Ffz of


220 ]
of London), told me, © That he had not a view of
« the meteor himſelf, but had converſed with three
<« countrymen, his pariſhioners, who had ſeen it:
« that they had all agreed in obſerving the light to
« be greater than that of moonſhine ; and that one
« of them, in particular, faid, jt was fo great that he
« could cafily have ſeen a pin lying on the ground :
« that the body at firſt was like a large ſhooting ſtar,
« hut with a flower motion: that its direftion was
« northerly : that, during its progrels, it increaſed in
« ſize, leaving a ſtream of light behind ; and at laſt,
« as it declined to the horizon, its lower part became,
« in appearance, As broad as his hand, whilſt the
« Jength of the whole ſeemed to be about five feet,
« of a conical figure, ending in a point upwards :
« that, before it reached the horizon, it burſt into a
« flame, reſembling a flaſh of lightning, and ther
« immediately diſappeared *,” Dr. Shipley going to!
the ſpot where the obſerver had ſtood, and making
him point to ſome trees at a diſtance, over which, he
faid, the meteor diſappeared, the Dottor found, by
taking the altitude with an inſtrument, that it had

CC rn ————T

* From this obſervation it appears, that the fiream of light,
called the tail, was not ſeen at firſt ; probably becauſe the meteor;
was in too high a region for the air to make any reſiſtance to the
flame; but when the body deſcended lower, then the air, tho! fill
extremely rarified, yet, from the extraordinary velocity of the me-
teor, would make ſome oppoſition to it, and drive the-flame back-
wards to form the tail, That the meteor deſcended obliquely, will
be more fully ſhewn afterwards, tho? the circumſtance mentioned
above of a conical figure ending in a point upwards, as it declined.
towards the horizon, is one proof of that fact.,

been


been, extinguiſhed about 1% 15' above. the horizon,
then bearing 35% weſtward of the north #,

III. As for this city, and the parts adjacent, all I
could learn was likewiſe from a Magazine ; in which
it was ſaid, © That the meteor was ſeen by three

« gentlemen in Chelſea-fields,” It is probable, that,
X on that evening, 'the air was foggy hereabouts, or
= that there was.no wind to carry off the ſmoak.; for
5 theſe circumſtances will. eaſily enough. account for
there being no noticeat all taken of that body in Lon-
don, and that it was ſo little heard of in the neigh-
bourhood. IV.