Account of Experiments made at Holyhead (North Wales) to ascertain the
P Transit-Velocity of Waves, analogous to Earthquake Waves, through the Local Rock
© Formations. By Rovers MaLLer, C.E., P.R.S.
ur
"7
ry
<Is my © Second Report on the Facts of Earthquake Phenomena” in the Report of the
SBritish Association for 1851, the transit-velocities were experimentally determined of
guaves of impulse produced by the explosion of charges of gunpowder, and these velocities
=8hown to be

Received June 18,—Read June 20, 1861.

<0 In wet 89nd . . . . . . $24:915 feet per second,
5 In discontinuous granite . . 18306:425 feet per second,
RY In more solid granite . . . 1664574 feet per second,

S
'Sthe range of sand employed having been that of Killiney Strand, and of granite that of
ZDalkey Island, both on the east coast of Ireland. These results produced some surprise
on my own part as well as on that of others, —the transit-velocities obtained falling
Zzreatly below those which theory might have suggested as possible, based upon the
modulus of elasticity of the material constituting the range in either case.
2 TI snggested as the explanation of the low velocities ascertained, that the media of
the ranges (like all the solids constituting the crust of the earth) were not in fact united
Sand homogeneous elastic solids, but an aggregation of solids more or less shattered,
Eheterogeneous, and discontinuous, and that to the loss of vis wwe, and of time, in the
Epropagation of the wave from surface to surface, was due the extremely low velocities
Eobserved. Z The correctness of this view, and a general corroboration of the correctness of the
Sexperimental results themselves, have since been made known by the careful determina-
Stions by NoGceRaTY and Scnapr respectively, of the transit-velocities of actual carth-
& quake waves in the superficial formations of the Rhine country and of Hungary, and by
myself in those of Southern Italy, all of which present low velocities coordinating readily
with my previous experimental results. -

In the Report above mentioned, I suggested the desirableness of extending the expe-
Timental determination of wave-transit to stratified and foliated rocks, as likely to pre-
sent still lower velocities than those obtained for shattered granite, as well as other
important or suggestive phenomena. The operations in progress at the Government
quarries at Holyhead (Island of Anglesea, North Wales), of dislodging vast masses of
"rock by means of gunpowder for the formation of the Asylum Harbour there, appeared
to me to present a favourable opportunity of making some experiments upon the

MDCCCLXI. 4v


656 MR, MALLET ON THE TRANSIT-VELOCITY OF EARTHQUAKE WAVES.

stratified rock formations of that locality, by taking advantage of the powerful
necessary at the quarries. 'These quarries are situated (see Map, Plate XX.) on
head Mountain on its N.E. flank, in metamorphic quartz rock, and in 1852 (a vast
of material having been already removed) presented a lofty, irregular, and nearly y;
scarp, reaching to 150 feet in height above the floor of the quarry in some places. _

From this wall of solid rock the process of dislodgement was continued, not by the
ual method of blasting, by means of small charges fired in jumper holes bored into
the rock, but by the occasional explosion of large mines, containing at times as much ag
nine tons of gunpowder lodged in one or in three or more separate foci, deep within the
face of the cif, and formed by driving © headings” or galleries from the base of the
mural face into the rock.