But the consumers of fresh meat generally
consume also suet, lard, and butter ; which either add to the fatness of the cooked
meats, or are used further to reduce the relation of the nitrogenous constituents in the
collaterally consumed vegetable foods. But, even were it granted, that the proportions
of Fat to Nitrogenous substance which our Table shows were too high, it must on the
other hand be remembered, that a considerable portion of the Nitrogenous matter of the
animals will be gelatin or chondrin-yielding substance, the applicability of which, at
any rate for strictly speaking flesh-forming, is, to say the least, doubted.


© SOME OF THE ANIMALS FED AND SLAUGHTERED AS HUMAN FOOD. 577

| appear to be unquestionable, therefore, that the influence of the introduc-
- tion of our staple animal foods, to supplement our otherwise mainly farinaceous diet, is.
on the large scale, to reduce, and not to increase, the relation of the as8med flesh-
- forming material, to the more peculiarly respiratory and fat-forming capacity, 80 to
-  gpeak, of the food consumed.
© That, nevertheless, a dietary containing a due proportion of animal food, is, for some
reason or other, better adapted to meet the collective requirements of the human
- organism, at least under many conditions, than an exclusively Bread, or other vegetable
one, the testimony of common experience may be accepted as sufficient evidence. Tnde-
pendently of any difference in the physical, and perhaps even chemical relations of the
A 3upposed flesh-forming nitrogenous compounds in animal food, which may render them,
Sat least in limited quantity, more easily available to the purposes of the system than the
E asumed analogous vegetable products, it is at any rate clear, that the main and charac-
'& teristic distinction between a Bread—and a mired Bread and Meat diet—consists, not
Sonly in the quantitatively higher relation of the respiratory and fat-forming capacity to
pa given amount of assumed flesh-forming material in the latter, but in the fact, that the
-Znon-flesh-forming constituents in the animal portions of the food, are in the form of
'Efat itse/—and not as in Bread, of mainly 8tarch.
= In fat. we have the most concentrated respiratory—and of course fat-storing material
= which our food-stuffs supply. But independently of the far greater capacity, 80
2Slar as the supply of constituents is concerned, of a given weight and bulk of Fat com-
Spared with Starch and the other snbstances of its class—would it not seem probable, that
Sthe tax upon the system would be less, at least for Fat-storing, if not in a degree for
Erespiration also, in the case of the ready-formed Fat, than in that of the Starch from
ewhich it may be formed ! EZ Again, it has been shown that Fat subserves important purposes in aiding the
Eligestion, and preparation for assimilation, of the matters ingested with it.