Heart, |

be ſuddenly and haftily protruded out of it, yetits flow=
ly carried into the Artery ; whereas on the contrary, it

runs into the Heart from the Veins with a' violent and ©
ſwift Courſez from whence, it happens, as T ſuppoſe, |
that the remaining part of the Blood in the Veins being

unable to follow with fo ſwift a Motion, are as it-were
violently and per ſaltum drawn or forced thro" the

Valves; and that it1s this ſort of Motion which we take

for Pulſes in the Arteries. { That

£4

+


-

© That T might ſatisfy my {elf in the abovemention-

” fort of Motionin my; Arm, which we call the Pulſe, at

; ed Obſervations, I. have ſeverat times "viewed that

* the time when 'my+ Body was. without motion and
> warm; and aftere diligent Conſideration ofvit, T-judg'd
; that that Motion, which we perceive in the Blood-Vetiel,
> was not derived-ſrom the Heart to the Hand, but” con-
= trariwiſe from 'the Hand ro the Arm, and fo to the
& Heart : From whence I concluded, that like as in the
= Tail of an Eel there are no- Valves in the Blood-V cſſels,
2 as far as I cou*d-perceive, and that a great many ſma}l
= Blood-Veſſels, are, as it were, united in that part where
© the Fiſh-bones begin, and make one large Blood-Vel-
© ſel, and that there is the firſt Valve; in the ſame man--
= ncrin Humane Bodies, a-great many fingle Blood-V efſ-
:2 ſels running out of the Hand, are joyned in the Arrm,
Z where likewiſe the firſt Valve is, thro? which the Blood
= at cach Protruſion falls into the Heart, and that that is
What we call the Pulſe. - . ST have ſeveral times obſerved in the exceeding ſmall
s Veins or Capillary Veſſels, a little 1ifing or fwelling ec-
© cafion'd by .a ſtronger Motion of the Blood, »whic!: L
z now firmly conclude, to proceed anly from the fudden
= Motion or running of the Blood thro? the Valves : 1
'Z have alſo obſerved, that in ſudden Frights,*and other-
: wiſe, one feels ſuch Motions at the end of one's Fingers,
Sjuſt as if there were Valves likewiſe in them, thro?
© which the: Blood guſhes; but theſe fort of Motions, I
z ſuppoſe, do only depend on that quick Motion made by
2 the Blood, when it runs thro' the Valve in the Arm by
* the Hand; to which we give the Name of a Pulle:
© - ?Tis ſaid, that there are Valves in all the Veins of
one's Body ; but I can hardly admit that -Aſſertion, for
»if there were Valves in thoſe Veins, which we can ſee
— with our naked Eye thro? the Skin, for inſtance, either
- of the Hand or the 'Arm, we ſhou'd certainly, in my
iff -O-o © Opinion,



- - i.
( 254 ) 0 |
Opinion, diſcover likewiſe the Blood-running thro? thoſe
Vaives: and"again if there are Valves 1n the atoremen-
tioned Veins-ot. the Arm or Hand, we ihould not be
able by-preſſing thoſe Veins with the Finger to drive
the Blood back again, which notwihtianding is. often
done. Moreover, if there were Valves in the Veins that lie
in the Skin expos'd to our ſight, there wou'd, in my O-
pinion, a great many Inconveniencies ariſe therefrom ;
tor if a Blow or Thruſt were made upon that part
where the Yalve. lies, .the Blood would not be able to
retire back, by which means the Valve or even the Vein
it ſelf might burſt : whereas, if there-are no Valves, the
Blood can eaſily retreat upwards or downwards in the
Veins, as we, in FaCt, obſerve of thoſe Veins that run *
on both ſides in the Tail-Fins of an Eel, which ds not
unite in one greater Vein where a Valveis, at leaſt as far -
we cou'd follow thoſe Veins with our Eyes. :
Having thus far committed theſe my Obſervations to |
Papers, I conſidered with my ſelf, whether T might not *
have ſomething of this nature lying by me, having for |
merly conſider*d this Subjett of Eels ; and I find amongſt *
other Papers, theſe thar follow. |
In the Month of September 1706, having opened an
Eel, and taken out the Guts, the Diameter or thickneſs
of which was about an Inch and a half; and having alſo |
laid open the Heart, I cou'd not diſcoyer that part
which receives the Blood out of the Great Vein in or- |
der to bring it into the Heart. '
Bur to the end+that I might better diſcover that part, |
I prepared little Glaſs-Tube, and put it into the great |
Vein at a little diftance from the Heart, and then blew
fome Air into the ſaid Vein, as much as might take u
the ſpace of about half a Pea : this Air paſs'd thro' the»
Great Vein into a little Bladder that lay on the fide of _
the Heart, the like of which I had never before obſer,
: ved


ved thereabouts; and no ſooner was the Air got into that
Bladder, but it did, as1t were, firſt contract and then
* dilate it (elf, fo regularly and in ſuch a manner, that
when the Heart contraQted it {elf (uſt as if it were go-
- ing to throw out it's Blood,) the aforeſaid little Bladder
with Airin it was dilated and this did not happen for
a ſmall time, but the Bladder continued in ſuch a Mos
tion above five full Hours together ; but indeed in the
- laſt Hour it was fo faint, that one conld but juſt per-
ceive it 3 and as for the Heart, its Motion was diſconti-
Anued.
= Icauſed moreover a Pike-fiſh to be brought me about
'Ztwo Foot long, and open'd it immediately whilſtit was
Sin its full ſtrength of Life, and obſery'd not only the
'5 Motion of the Heart, and the regular Motion of that
part which receives the Blood, and brings it into the
'S Heart, but alſo the Motion of that other part, which
Z receives the protrudgd Blood from the Heart, and car-
= ries it gently anto the Arteries. SZ Now becauſe very few have any manner of knows
® ledge of the Heart of a Pike, and the Motion thereof, I
'Z have cauſed ſuch a, Heart, with the Veſſels and Inſtru-
'= ments belonging to it, to be drawn by my Painter.
= Fig. 1. A,B, C, D, ſhews the Heart ofa Pike; D, E,
SF, A, repreſents that” part into which the Blood is
= brought from the Veins; and C, D, G, that other part
2 which receives the Blood from the Heart, to carry it in-
=to the Arteries.
5.