The localities afford therefore in this respect a contrast nearly as great as can exist in
any part of the globe; since magnetically the directions are the same, whilst geogra-
phically they want only 6* of being 180? apart, or diametrically opposite. The value
of this contrast appears when we proceed to consider the facts of the solar-diurnal vari-
ation at the two stations, and perceive rightly their important bearing on the correct
understanding of its true nature and character, and of the physical relations which
must be inyolyed in any well-grounded explanation. |

To prevent, as far as may be possible, misconception in the minds of those to whom
the 8ubject is not familiar, it may be premised that in speaking of the direction of the
magnet the eye of the observer is here supposed to be at its middle, and directed towards
the marked or north end; a change of direction towards the magnetic east will thus be

to the observer's right, and a change towards the west to the observer's left. Now the

most, marked features of the solar-diurnal variation, and which are found to prevail

univyersally in all the extratropical parts of the northern hemisphere, are, an extreme

deflection to the observer's right (or towards the magnetic east) about 8 A.Mt., and an

extreme deflection to the observer's left (or towards the magnetic west) about 2 P.M.
4U2


660 MAJOR-GENERAL SABINE ON THE RESULTS OF HOURLY OBSERVATIONS

Whenever the phenomena are viewed within the aforesaid limits, the facts thus referred
to are identical when expressed magnetically. This description of the solar-diurnal variation, in which all geographical relations are
put aside, applies with equal correctness to the phenomena at Port Kennedy and at
Point Barrow ; but when geographical relations are again introduced, the same pheno-
mena have to be described in a very different manner, and the two stations become
widely distinguished from each other*. The marked end of the magnet, when looked
at at 8 A.M., is 8cen at Port Kennedy to have moved from its mean position of S. 35* W.
towards the geographical West, and at Point Barrow to haye moved from its mean position
of N. 41*E. towards the geographical Fast; and correspondingly at 2 p.x. the marked end
is at Port Kennedy to the geographical Z#ast of its mean position, and at Point Barrow
to the geographical West.