In Hyalonema mirabilis, GRAY, a sponge nearly related to the genus Alcyoncellum, we
find another extraordinary series of internal defensive spicula, the structure of which I
have described at length under the head of * Defensive Organs.” These elaborately and
wonderfully formed weapons are evidently destined for other purposes than that of
simple repulsion. The spiculated cruciform spicula, with their short stout basal radii
planted firmly on the lines of the 8keleton, and projecting from their centre at right
angles to their own plane, the long spiculated ray furnisghed with numerous strong sharp


AND PHYSIOLOGY OF THE SPONGTAD AE. 805

recuryed spines, it will be at; once seen, are eminently fitted to retain annelids or other
such, prey, and to cause! every motion of the struggling victim to contribute to its own
laceration and destruction, while the structure and mode of attachment of the eruciform
base- is admirably calculated to resist the force and motions it has to sustain in such en-
counters. But these spicula, although exceedingly numerous, are not the only organs
capable. of retaining intruders into the body of the sponge with which it is furnished:
there are, in addition, numerous large multihamate birotulate spicula dispersed in various
positions, on the sides of the interstitial cavities of the sponge, each of the rotulz con-
8isting of seven or eight stout recuryed flattened radii, which if immersed in any straggling
animal would be capable of sustaining a vastly greater amount of force than many of
the spiculated quadriradiate ones combined could endure without injury ; and that their
S egpecial office is that of auxiliary retentive organs is well demonstrated by the fact that
© the trenchant, edges of the flattened radii are all at right angles to the line of force
Z required to tear away their hold of any body in which they may have been inserted. Thus
Z they appear destined. by nature to secure the prey, while its own struggles among the
E lacerating, organs contribute to its destruction (Plate XXXI. figs. 3, 4, 5, 6 & T).

= In the modification. of the structure: of the contort bihamate spicula, and their peculiar
& adaptation to the retention and destruction of intruders within the sponge, which T have
i= described when treating on the internal defensive spicula, and which is represented in
2 Plate XXXI. figs. 1 & 2, we have. precisely the same physiological principle carried out,
Sbut, by means widely different from those I have previously described. E If we consider the: whole of these extraordinary organs to which I have referred in
= relation, to each other, we cannot fail to see that, however varied their forms may be,
© there-is-every appearance of perfect harmony of design in the purposes they are destined
= z to effect in the economy of the Spongiade.

= The Cilia and.