The total amount of Nitrogen obtained during the ten years was, in the
ten crops of wheat grown consecutively, 234 Ilbs., in the five crops of wheat alternated
with fallow, 219-3 1bs., and in the five crops of wheat alternated with beans, 225-8 1bs.
—or not yery materially different in the three cases. But, notwithstanding that the
land has thus yielded in wheat, over ten years, almost as much total Nitrogen in five
< erops alternated with beans, as in ten crops grown consecutively, and rather more than in

S five crops alternated with fallow, the five intermediate crops of beans have, in addition

© to this, themselves carried off more than the same amount of Nitrogen as the wheat—

= namely, 244-5 lbs. S The general result is, then, that pretty nearly the same amount of Nitrogen was taken

5 from a given area of land in wheat, in ten years, whether ten crops were grown Ccon-

E secutively, five crops in alternation with fallow, or five crops in alternation with beans.

z In fact, the crop of wheat was increased fully as much when it succeeded Deans, which

S carried off a large amount of Nitrogen, and of mineral matters also, as when it succeeded

S fallow, which conserved the stores both of Nitrogen and of mineral matter. It will be seen, by the illustrations given in the next sub-section (C.), that the experi-

-2 mental results thus far adduced are perfectly consistent in character with those obtained

E under cireumstances more nearly allied to those of ordinary farm practice.

>

Z C—Tied of Nitrogen per acre when crops are grown in an actual course of rotation.

8 In BoussxGauLT's experiments, he obtained, taking the results of six separate courses

= of rotation, an average of between one-third and one-half more Nitrogen in the produce

2 than had been supplied in the manure. He found, moreover, that the largest yields of

= Nitrogen were in the Leguminous crops, and, further, that the Cereal crops were the

S larger when they next succeeded upon the removal of the highly nitrogenized Legumi-

E Nous crops.

8 For our own experiments at Rothamsted upon an actual course of rotation, a piece
of land was selected which was, in an agricultural sense, exhausted ; that is to say, it
had grown a course of crops since the application of manure, and would, under ordinary
Practice, haye received a new supply before growing another crop.