At all events,
the assumption that an evolution of free Nitrogen has taken place implies, as in the
case of the experiments discussed at pp. 513, 514, the still more improbable one, thak
there has been an exactly compensating amount as8imilated. But since the conditions
of the experiments now under consideration were arranged with special reference to the
question of assimilation, they necessarily do not embrace all the circumstances which,
@ priori, would be considered the most favourable for the evolution of free Nitroget
during growth. :

Various experimenters, from the time of Di SAUSSURE until quite recently, have enter-
tained the idea of the probability of the decomposition of nitrogenous compounds, and

the concomitant evolution of free Nitrogen, during the growth of plants. We are
ourselves engaged in following up the 8ubject, by methods better qualified to settle the
We

question than those adopted in regard to the question of assimilation of Nitrogen.
hall therefore not treat of this subject any further here, than to call attention to the
incidental bearing upon it of the results now under consideration. ;

The fact that there has been no decomposition of nitrogenous compounds and 1oss of
Nitrogen as the result of growth, in the particular conditions to which these experimental
plants were subjected, affords little eyidence that no 8uch decomposition could take


THE SOURCES OF THE NITROGEN OF VEGETATION, ETC. 529

under any other cireumstances. When supplied with an insufficient quantity of

ous matter, the yegetable organism might not decompose any of that matter ;
4 yet, when an excess of combined Nitrogen was supplied, the decomposition might
: The results we have given, therefore, afford evidence against the fact of ch
c _— only within a very limited range of cireumstances of growth. Tn dis-
g the results of the experiments the consideration of which we are now about to
upon, we shall refer to this question again, in connexion with cireumstances of
gr which we should suppose would be more favourable to an evolution of free
y =. by the plant,

SIL—Ezperiments in which the plants had a known supply of combined Nitrogen beyond

= that contained in the Original 8eed.

5 We have thus far considered the 8ubject of the assimilation of free Nitrogen, by
reference to the results of experiments upon plants grown without any supply of com-
-Sbined Nitrogen beyond that contained in the seed sown.