The monkey was the fon i high 1 procured! for,ob=
seryation ; being led, from previous, knowledge in, comparative
anatomy,,: to believe that the structure of. its, eye. must bear a
very, close resemblance, to, that of. the human subject. 1; |! +
\ The eye, was, examined immediately aſter the death, of the
animal, and was prepared in the same way that,I haye already
described the; human eye to haye been for this;purpose ;.80, that
the; concave, surface of, the retina; appeared. in/ its most. natural
state, and the vitreous humour, being entire, kept-/it-expanded,
and. free from rug#./, Qn the first view;nothing was to be/seen
but one dark surface, Surrounding the, entrance. of the. optic
nerye. Two, hours aſter death, ;the retina; became sufficiently
opaque to be,distinguished, and, immediately: after, the, orifice.
was visible, appearing to be an extremely small-circular,aper-
ture; without any-margin. ;; but,, in half,an hour-more,, the-zone
had, formed, , which, when very accurately. examined in a. bright-

SY HIV 3Z0DdK

FI



in the Retina-of the 'Eye. 339

light, had-an appearance of four rays, at right angles, as ex-
pressed in the annexed plate. (See Tab. XVII. fig. g.) Its situa-
tion, Tespecting the optic:nerve,) was precisely the-same as in
the human eye.» As I considered this'to-be a fact 'of some im-
portance, since it proved the aperture-in the retina'to be a part
of the structure-of the-eye, generally, and not a peculiarity in
the human eye, I requested Sir Jos:Pn Banks, Sir CHARLES
BLAGDEN, and Dr. BAILLIE, to examine it: to-all 'of them it
appeared very distinct. || After having shown- it to those gen-
tlemen, and having anaccurate drawing: made of it, I preserved
that portion of the. eye in spirits; where the aperture in the
retina can still be seen, but-the radiated appearance
is lost. ;

In the eye of a dulidett prepared-in' the same manner, 1
looked-in vain for a'similar- appearance: if it” existed, and
bore any proportion to! the size 'of the eye-ball, as it ap-
pears to' do in the human-eye and that of the monkey, it
must have; been very. visible.* The concave surface of the
retina was examined in different lights, under a variety of cir-
cumstances, and by” magnifying glasses of different powers,
but still no aperture could be discovered. I was, however,
very much struck, while looking at the optic nerve, to see
something in the vitreous humour, (in consequence of a per-
80N anonentany shaking the —_— that had not been before
observed.