I have endeayoured
to show that the cell, when fully formed, does not occupy the same spot as it did when
its development commenced ; and upon consideration it will appear that it is not possible

that many of the ganglion-cells could haye been developed in the position in which they
are found in the fully formed state. '

The spiral scems to result partly from a sort of splitting and subsequent condensation
of the lower portion of the cell itself, and partly by growing from the nuclei connected
with the fibres, while at the same time the fundus moves away, and spiral after Spiral is

* See a paper in my * Archives, yol. iv. p. 150, © New Observations upon the Moyements of the living or
germinal matter of the tissues of Man and the higher animals,”


4

APOLAR, UNIPOLAR, AND BIPOLAR NERVE-CELLS OF THE FROG. 557

left around the central fibre, which is of course gradually increasing in length also, I
think it doubtful if the entire cell rotates, because the central fibre does not appear to
be twisted ; but it is obviously possible that the outer portion of the cell might rotate
glowly round the inner portion without causing any twisting of the fibre, the mass of
which the cell is composed being in the natural state very soft and plastic,

It must be borne in mind that at first the two fibres of the ganglion-cell are parallel
to each other, and that the cell while altering its position continues to grow. As the
cell moves away, its fundus or large extremity preceding, the fibres projecting from it
increase in length—are drawn out, as it were. There is a fact in fayour of rotation which I have observed s0 often that it may be
regarded as constant—that, in peripheral parts where a dark-bordered fibre is being
Sdeveloped, a fine fibre passes spirally around it; and this may be accounted for in pre-
© cisely the same way as I have attempted to explain the production of the spiral fibre of
>the ganglion-cells. The arrangement described is represented in figs. 29 & 30. It is

constant, but can only be demonstrated positively at an early period of deyelopment of the
= dark-bordered fibre.