Stations were elected in both hemispheres, and
in the tropics, on continents and on islands, the selection being guided either by diyersity
of geographical circumstances, or by magnetical relations of prominent interest. 'The
objects of investigation were also enlarged, s0 as to include not alone the transient and
irregular fluctuations which had occupied the chief attention of the German Associations,
but also © the actual distribution of the magnetic influence over the globe at the present
epoch in its mean or average state, together with all that is not permanent in the phe-
nomena, whether it appear in the form of momentary, daily, monthly, semiannual or
annual change and restoration, or in progressive changes, possibly not compensated by
counter-changes, or possibly receiving compensation, either in whole or in part, in cycles
of unknown relation and unknown period.” Suitable instruments, which in many
respects were novel in construction, were provided for the observation of each of the
three magnetic elements in this scheme of comprehensive research ; and a report, pre-
pared with much deliberation and care by a special committee of the Royal Society, was
printed for the instruction and guidance of those who should be employed in conducting
the magnetic surveys by sea and land, and of those who should direct or superintend
the investigations to be carried out at the stationary magnetic establishments. The present communication having reference to one branch only of one department
of this extensive inquiry, viz. to that which relates to the magnetic disturbances, its
notices are strictly limited to what may be necessary for placing before the Society as
briefly as possible the snccessive steps which have advanced our knowledge of these
phenomena, in respect to their diversities and mutual relations, their connexion with
the general phenomena of terrestrial magnetism, and their probable cosmical origin. The simultaneity of the days on which magnetic disturbances take place had already
been shown by the term-days of the Gottingen Association to be coextensive with its
sphere of operation, viz. the greater part of the continent of Europe. 'The wider exten-
sjon of the British system, embracing stations in all quarters of the globe, now caused
the fact of the simultaneity of disturbance to be recognized as a general feature common
to the whole of our planet; whilst the evidence of diversity in the action of individual
forces, even in the most clear cases of synchronous disturbance, was even more distinctly
manifested than in the previous more limited experience. Thus the comparison of the
term-days in 1840, 1841, and 1842 observed at different stations on the continents of
Furope and America, and collated in the first yolume of the Observations at the Toronto
Obseryatory, published in 1845, gave occasion to the following general conclusion —
*'The correspondence 80 strikingly manifested in the fluctuations in America, and which


MAGNETIC DECLINATION AT KEW AND NERTSCHINSK. | 231
has its counterpart in the correspondence shown by the term-observations at the different
stations in Europe, is not found to prevail in anything like the same degree between the
curves of the two continents when they are exhibited in comparison. Nevertheless indi-
cations are not wanting of participation in disturbances having a common cause. ....