When the fibres on the anterior aspect which belong to one or other of the
ventricles are traced into the septum, and the ventricles forcibly separated (Plate XIV.
fig. 45) in a line corresponding with the course which the fibres peculiar to each yen-
tricle naturally take, the right ventricle (4) claims, as its share of the partition alluded
to, rather less than one-third of its entire breadth (7), the remaining two-thirds (=)
going to the left yentricle (7). Why the right ventricle should claim less than a third
of the septum is difficult to explain, unless it be that this portion of the septum, belong-
ing as it does more particularly to the right ventricle, represents the right half of the
septal fold atrophied to half its original dimensions (Plate XVI. diag. 16, K), in common
with the other portions of the right ventricular wall (F)*. The right ventricular wall
after birth, it will be remembered, is only half the thickness of the left (Plate XV.
compare Cd" with c d of fig. 51). 'This view seems probable from the fact, that the sep-
tum in some places (Plate XV. fig. 50, cd') is nearly a third thicker than the left ven-
tricular wall (cd) between the papillary muscles (x, y)—an excess in breadth which very
nearly corresponds with what would be obtained when allowance is made for the right
and left halves of the septal duplicature passing through each other, until the central
layer in either is reached, and for the atrophy of the right half of the septal fold as
suggested. ;

4thly. When the cut ends of the common fibres found on the left ventricle, 5. 6. those
to the outside of the central layer (Plate XIIL. fig. 25, f), are applied to the fibres form-
ing the two-thirds of the septum (9) which belong to this ventricle, they are ascertained
to agree in direction, and would, if united, give rise to four complete systems of conical
spirals (two external and two internal), these conical spiral fibres being continuous with
each other at the apex and also at the base; whereas the fibres of the right ventricle
and its share of the septum, treated in the same way, although likewise continuous at
the base and in the track for the anterior coronary artery, consist merely of spiral frag-
ments (Plate XIV. fig. 35, fg, qe), and represent only a part of a more complete system

#* In this explanation T haye 8upposed that the right ventricle and the right half of the septal fold haye
become atrophied to half their original bulk, in accordance with the law that structure and function are related
to each other as cause and effect—the efforts required for maintaining the pulmonic circulation being probably
about half those required for the maintenance of the systemic. The convyerse, however, of this explanation is
equally true, and might be adopted with the same result as far as the comparative thickness of the yentricles
is concerned, Thus, instead of supposing that the right yentricle and its half of the septal duplicature becomes
atrophied, it might be assumed, in accordance with the same law, that the left ventricle and its half of the
septal duplicature becomes hypertrophied to twice its original dimensions, the right ventricle and its share of
the septum remaining stationary,


IN THE VENTRICLES OF THE VERTEBRATE HEART, ; 467

'—a portion nipped off as it were from the perfect cone. (Compare &d"& with ed 4! of
fig. 50, Plate XV., and EF with HI of diag. 17, Plate XVI.)
5thly.