It further hows that many of the lines, like the fibres themselyes, return to points not
wide of those from which they started. If another line, about the middle of the sheet
(Plates XV. & XVI. diagrams 1 & 3, KLMN O), be taken, and traced in the 8ame
manner, it will be seen to proceed from the extreme base K (Plate XII. compare with
fibres marked f in fig. 3), and to turn upon itself or reyerse its direction and enter the
interior at a till wider portion of the cone M (Plate XII. compare with fibres marked
k in fig. 3)—4. 6. at a point still further removed from the original apex (C)—and 80 on
until the opposite marginal line (Plates XV. & XVI. diagrams 1 & 3, U V W) is reached,
which confines itself entirely to the base, or upper portion of the cone (Plate XII.
compare with fibres marked fq, d' e, fig. 4), and makes only one turn of a spiral. This
disposition of the lines reveals what to me is a very interesting fact, viz. that certain
lines, like certain layers, are confined to certain localities or regions. (The first layer
of the left yentricle, as was pointed out, extends from the extreme base to the extreme
apex (Plate XII. fig. 1), while the fourth layer does not quite extend to either (Plate
XII. fig. 4). It further shows, what is scarcely less important, that, of the lines origin-
ally of the same length, some, from the fact of their winding very partially round the
base or wider portion of the [cone (Plate XVI. diagram 3, A) while they twist rapidly
round the apex or narrow part (B C), make one twrn and a half of a spiral, whereas
others, which are confined to and wind round the base or wider portion of the cone,
make only one turn of a spiral (Plate XVI. diagram 3, U V W)—an arrangement which,
as I endeavoured to point out (see p. 456), prevails also in the left ventricle. When the
interior of the cone, fashioned as recommended, is examined, the marginal lines are
obseryed to twist out of the apex (Plate XVI. diagram 9, Y) and assume a more or less
vertical direction (Plate XVI. diagram 6, E F!, and diagram 8, Y), in a manner which
wonderfully accords with the direction of the fibres composing one or other of the mus-
culi papillares (Plate XVI. compare Y of diagram 9 with y of figs. 12 & 13, Plate XII).