It appears then, that as in common algebra an expression may
become illusory from the variable quantity assuming a parti-
cular 'value; S0 in the doctrine of functions an expression
may become likewise illusory by the variable function as8um-
ing a particular form; in the one case the real value may be
a constant quantity, in the other it may be an arbitrary func-
tion: nor ought this circumstance of the appearance of an
arbitrary function to surprise us, when we consider that (as
for instance in the second example) it is not one form only of
the ſunction fx which will satisfy the equation fr. feav==1,
but any of the infinite variety of forms comprehended in the

expression fr = { % (x, aw) \ ke and similarly for the va-
lues of fy. The circumstance of this species of vanishing

fractions having an arbitrary function contained in their true
value, is of considerable importance in the calculus of func-
tions, as I shall now shortly endeavour to prove. The Royal Society did me the honour to insert, in the last
volume of their Transactions, a paper of mine, in which I gave
a new method of solving all functional equations of the first
order, and of a certain class by means of elimination, and I
there stated that all solutions so obtained were only par-
ticular cases of the general solutions, and that they did not
contain any arbitrary function,

Now it may be observed, that there are certain forms which
may be assigned to the coefficients which render those solu-
tions apparently infinite, yet that on farther consideration it
appears, that the solution is in fact a vanishing fraction : in all
such cases the. process I have just pointed out will give the
real s0lution which will contain an arbitrary function, so that
it is in fact a general solution. Thus in the equation vw + fiv.


202 Mr. BABBAGE on the analogy between the

feefe far

TI if fe. fax =1 it
apparently becomes infinite, but by subtracting the equation
fx . vaw + fo.far .he'w =fo. fax (which is deduced from
the former by putting «z for z and multiplying by fz) we
have since a'z = and also fz .far=1, o= fr Tb.