Is it possible that the very considerable quantity of heat that
was produced in this experiment (a quantity which actually
raised the temperature of above 1131b. of gun-metal at least
70 degrees of FAHRENHEIT's thermometer, and which, of course,
would have been capable of melting 6+1b. of ice, or of causing
near zlb. of ice-cold water to boil,) could have been furnished
by 80 inconsiderable a quantity of metallic dust? and this merely
in consequence of a change of its capacity for heat ? As the weight of this dust (837 grains Troy) amounted to
no more than ;2;th part of that of the cylinder, it must have
lost no less than g48 degrees of heat, to have been able to have
rTaised the temperature of the cylinder 1 degree; and conse-
quently it must have given off 66360 degrees of heat, to have
produced the effects which were actually found to have been
produced in the experiment ! But, without insisting on the improbability of this supposi-
tion, we have only to recollect, that from the results of actual
and decisive experiments, made for the express purpose of as-
certaining that fact, the capacity for heat, of the metal of which
great guns are cast, 7s not sensibly changed by being reduced to
the form of metallic chips, in the operation of boring cannon ;
and there does not seem to be any reason to think that it can
be much changed, if it be changed at all, in being reduced to
much smaller pieces, by means of a borer that is less shirp.-”


88: Count RumrorD's Inquiry concerning

If the heat, or any considerable part of it, were produced in
consequence of a change in the capacity for heat of a part of
the metal of the cylinder, as such change could only be super-
ficial, the cylinder would by degrees be exhausted ; or the
quantities of heat produced, in any given short space of time,
would be found to diminish gradually, in successive experi-
ments. To find out if this really happened or not, I repeated
the last-mentioned experiment several times, with the utmost
care; but I did. not discover the smallest sign of exhaustion
in the metal, notwithstanding the large quantities of heat ac-
tually given off. Finding s0 much reason to conclude, that the heat generated
in these experiments, or excited, as I would rather choose to
express it, was not furnished at the expence of the latent heat
or combined caloric of the metal, I pushed my inquiries a step
farther, and endeavoured to find out whether the air did, or
did not, contribute any thing in the generation of it.