Unwilling to rest my belief in it on mere empirical evidence, I

(®) It appears to be the prevalent belicf among mathematicians who haye considered the question, that
Npwrox was not in pos8es8ion of other than empirical evidence in support of his rule,

(*) Cameyrr's memoir is rather on an analogous rule to Nezwrox's than on the rule itself, to which he refers
only by way of comparison with his own, In it the same singular error of reasoning is committed as in the
notes of the French edition of the © Arithmetica,” viz, of assuming, without a shadoyy of proof, that if each of a
set of criteria indicates the existence of s0me imaginary roots, a succession of sets of 8uch criteria must indicate
the existence of at least as many distinct imaginary pairs of Toots as there are such sets (sce par. at foot of
P. 528, Phil, Trans., yol. xxxy.)—much as if, supposing a number of dogs to be making a point in the same
field, the existence could be assumed of as many birds as pointers.

(4) Mr. AzcnrBary Swire has obligingly called my attention to Warixe's treatment/of the question of Nzw-
Tox's rule in the © Meditationes Analytice,” On superficial examination the reader might be induced to suppose
that in part 9, p. 68, ed. 1782, WarixG had deduced a proof of the rule from the preceding propositions ; but on

looking into the case will find that there is not the slightest vestige of proof, the rule being stated, but without
any demonstration whatever being either adduced or alleged. In fact, on turning to the preface of this (the
last) edition of the © Meditationes,” the reader will find at p. 11 an explicit ayowal of the demonstration being
wanting, After referring in order to Caxmeprra/s, Maciavrix's, and Nawrox's rules, as well 'as his own, for
discovering the existence of impossible roots, he adds these words:

* At omnes he regule predict perraro invenerunt yerum numerum imposstbilium radicum in ewquationibus
multarum dimensionum et ad/uc demonstratione egent ; yulgares enim demonstrationes 8olummodo probant impos-
8hiles radices in data zquatione contineri, non yero quod 8altem tot sunt quot invenit regula.”

« Vera resolutio problematis est perdifficilis et yalde laboriosa;; cognitum est radices ex Possibilitate per
=qualitatem transire ad impossibilitatem ; ergo in ;generali resolutione hujusce problematis necesse /est inyenire
casum in quo radices date wquationis eyadunt aquales; resolutio autem hujus casus yalde laboriosa est; et
consequenter resolutio generalis predicti problematis magis erit laboriosa,”

Written in Latin, and when the proper language of algebra was yet unformed, it is frequently a work of
much labour to follow Warrx6's demonstrations and deductions, and to distinguish his assertions from his
proofs, T find he agrees with the opinion expressed by myself, that Nzwrox's rule will not © pene,” as stated
by Newros, but only © perraro,” give the true number of imaginary roots. Like myself, too, in the body of the
memoir WauwuxG has giyen theorems, of probability in connexion with rules of this kind, but without any elus
to his method of arriving at them. Their correctness may legitimately be doubted.

[Since the aboye was sent to press, T have been enabled to ascertain that the great name of Eves is to be
added to the long list of those who have fallen into error in their treatment of this question : see Institutiones
Caleuli Differentialis, vol. ii. cap. xiii, He says (p. 555, edition of Prony), « videndum est utrum hee duo
criteria (meaning Newrox's criteria of imaginariness) sint contigua necne; priori cas mumerus radicum
imaginarium non augebitur ; posteriori yero quia criteria litteras prorsus diversas inuolvunt, unumquodgue
binas radices imaginarias monstrabit.”

The force of the supposed argument is contained in the words in italics.