This is probably owing to the breaking
away of the congealed mucus, and the inſtantaneous
ruſhing of the air into the tympanum ; fo that when
D this-diſorder-is but ſlight and recent, nature feems
= frequently to. relieve herſelf; but when more con-
2 Armed, her efforts are ineffeQtual for its removal.
= -, | Theſe conſiderations inclined me ſtrongly to think,
S the heating might ſuffer from that cauſe, and 1 was
& much confirmed herein by the following: very re-
5 markable caſe, ogin"

Z Richard Evans, aged thirty-five, was exceeding
Z deaf in both his ears, and no viſible diſorder in the
= external -meatus. 1taroſe from cold, and had ſub-
5 lifted ſeveral years, during which time no /art or
Z, means whatſoever, could procure him the leaft relief.
= In Auguſt lat: he:died of the ſmall-pox, at the hoſ-
£. pital in Cold-bath fields. I took that 'opportunity-to
= examine the euſtachian tube of each ear, and found
£ them both ſtuffed quite full of congealed mucus,
Z which. was obſerved by two gentlemen of the pro-
5 fefſion preſent. "This was the only viſible me of
S his deafneſs, the other parts appearing in their natu-
a ml fate. As all theſe concurring circumſtances ſtrengthened
- me in my opinion, they likewiſe incited me to. make
trial of an operation that was ſome time ago- propoſed

(4) Halles in Boerhaav.. de Auditu, pag 381. not. g;


to the Academy of Sciences, by” Monſieur Guyot;;
but the author having never practiſed it; he wanted
the recommendation of facts to ſupport and enforce
it ; it was therefore, rejected -by them as impraQti-
cable,(4). \

1 firſt introduced my probe, alittle bent at the
end,, through the noſe, into the tubes of ſeveral dead
ſubje&ts ; and, having thereby acquired-a facility, I
did the ſame on a perſon that was very deaf, and on
whom all other means had proved ineffeftual : no
ſooner had I withdrawn the probe, than hefaid, he
could hear much better. This ſucceſs excited my
further endeavours, fo that I had pipes of different
ſizes adapted to a ſyringe, and have ſince injected the
meatus internus in the following manner, with ſuc-
ceſs. The, pipe is made of filver, about the fize and
length, of a common, probe, and a little: bent” at the
end: this being fixed to an ivory, ſyringe, full of li-
quor (viz. a little mel roſarum in -warm water);
muſt be introduced. between the ala and ſeptum of
the,noſe, with its convexity towards the upper part

(a) Hiſt. dePAcad. 1724. pag. 53.