G would


[ 42 ]

would not: have the fame effect, they applicd it to
the ſtump, and ſecured it with: proper bandages and
after two hours and an half, the blood ſprung out
with the ſame- impetuoſity ; when Monl. la Foſſe
applied the lycoperdon powder, which he held on
with his hand alone, for only ſox minutes: he took
away his hand, and: no artery bled but the crural ;
but the ſtream. of this was very ſmall, by means of
the-powder ; which they let alone for fix minutes,
and yet it; did not increaſe:. then: this gentleman put
a, pinch of the powder to this bleeding| veſſel, and
the. blood ſtopped in four minutes before them. In
all theſe operations, the: ſame. cone and membrane
were formed ; for they difleCted them all afterwards,
and this effe&t of the medicine was ever conſtant. Theſe were the facts ſtrongly atteſted by the com-
mittee of the Academy mentioned above ; which, I
think, as ſtrongly deſerve the notice of the world;
and if the ſame. effe&s are: produced upon human
bodies, the painful tying up the arteries, and the ha-
zard or uncertainty of the agaric, will be fully com-
penſated in this noble powder. It is ſaid by thoſe two gentlemen, that this powder-
was not. quite-unknown before: true, 1 know that,
in countries. where I have travelled, the common
people know it to be good for ſtopping blood, and!
accordingly uſe it for bleeding of the noſe, and acci-
dental cuts in: any part; and authors have indeed
mentioned it-as good in the fame intentions ; but E
do not know of any who have broughe it to/ the teſt
in amputations, where its uſe is very capital, and its
application. ſo caſy and ſimple, and when alſo every
field almoſt; during- the autumn, produces- theſe
balls, '

Mr,


[ 43 ]

Mr. Ray, in his hiſtory, aſcribes that virtue to this
powder ; and allo ſays, it powerfully dries up foul
ichorous ulcers; and many others commend it as a
ſyptic beſides. i

This, Sir, is what I thought neceſſary to lay be-
fore the Society, from the ſame motive that T am
ſure would excite every member, if opportunities
offered.