They might be considerably multi-
plied, but they are sufficient for the purpose of affording a basis of comparison with the
same parts in the Marsupials and Monotremes. Before entering upon this part of the 8ubject, it may be desirable to give an outline of
the present condition of knowledge upon it. A reference to the works of comparative
anatomists who wrote before the year 1887, shows that up to that period no important
distinction had been suspected to exist in the cerebral organization of the placental and
the implacental mammals. - In the Philosophical Transactions of that year, however,
appeared the memoir of Professor Owen © On the Structure of the Brain in Marsupial
Animals,” in which was announced the absence in these animals, of the * corpus callo-
2am _ and septum lucidum.” A transverse commissure between the hemispheres superior
to. the anterior commissure is described, but called by Professor OwEN © fornix” or
* hippocampal commissure.” | Of this it is stated, © This commissure may, nevertheless,
be regarded as representing, besides the fornix, the rudimental commencement of the


OF THE MARSUPIALIA AND MONOTREMATA. 641

corpus callosum ; but this determination does not invalidate the fact that the great
commissure which unites the supraventricular masses of the hemispheres in the Beaver
and all other placentally developed Mammalia, and which exists in addition to the
hippocampal commissure, is wanting in the brain of the Wombat: and as the same
deficiency exists in the brain of the Great and Bush Kangaroos, the Vulpine Phalanger,
the Ursine, and Mauce's Dasyures, and the Virginian Opossum, it is most probably the
characteristic of the marsupial division of Mammalia.” The relatively large size of the
anterior commissure in the marsnpials is referred to in the paper as worthy of notice,
as also is the proportionally very large size of the hippocampi majores,

The description given in this important memoir was subsequently reproduced in the
Cyclopzdia of Anatomy and Physiology, art. Marsupialia, and it was shown that the
same peculiarity also existed in the Monotremata, and therefore was characteristic of the
whole implacental division. In the paper by the 8same author * On the Characters,
Principles of Division and Primary Groups of the Class Mammalia” *, the Subclass
Lyencephala (*1loose” or © disconnected” brain), equivalent to the Implacentalia, are
characterized as having © the cerebral hemispheres but feebly and partially connected
together by the * fornix” and * anterior commissure,” while in the rest of the class a part
called © corpus callosum* is added, which completes the connecting or commissural
apparatus”.