However, if the -argument for uſing the London
obſervations has any force at all, the computation of
the value of each perſon's life muſt be'made from
obſcrvations, 'Crawn from the bills of mortality, kept
at the place of his or her reſidence; and therefore it
is, that I at preſent trouble you, 'in order "to contri-
bute, as. much as-I can, to there being: a ſufficient
number of good bills-of mortality. There ſecms-to bean objedtion, both to'the hypo-
theſis,” and/to the obſervations ; for-it is well known,
that the fair ſex (eſpecially at two periods of their
life) .are obnoxious to: fatal diſorders, not incident'to
the other-ſcx, -nor- diſtinguiſhed in the preſent bills
of mortality ; and, conſequently, neither: the tables
of obſervations, nor the hypotheſis (which is derived
from them) -will render the calculations of the values
of lives ſufficiently (certain ;' unleſs there be a peri-
odical diſtin&tion of fexes/in thoſe bills : as it would
probably-appear, if ſuch a diſtin&tion had been in-
troduced, | that| there! is a -wide -difference between
the values of a-male and female life of the ſame age. But there will be a great inconvenience, in reject-
ing the hypotheſis, which none of 'thele gentlemen
heve remedied ; I mean the--prolix and laborious
computation hitherto directed for the anding the
values of lives from tables of obſervations : whereas,
by the hypotheſis (as its author juſtly obſerves) more
can be concluded in a quarter of an hour, than can
be performed in a quarter of a year, by any method,
which the others have 'demonſtrated, 'Whence it

may be preſumed, that the hypotheſis will continue
b 2 to


[339 ])
to be uſed; until better: methods are-ſabſtituted in the;
ace: of thoſe derived from! it. 1» +1 11 1

When the bills of mortality, digeſted. into a proper .
form, ſhall haye been kepta/ convenient, time in every
city or conſiderable-towny and alſo in eyery/hundred,
or-other proper divifion, of; the:country (and: this: I
ſhould be; glad to {ce done) then, and not-till then,
the: hypotheſis may be |tried-by-the: facts; that will,
appear fromthe bills, and be confirmed: or rejected
accordingly,

Indeed (for my own part) I am almoſt perſuaded,
from what has been-above' remarked, that-the hy-
potheſis will, in general, appear to be the nearer the,
truth, the more thoſe bills of mortality ſhall be- in
number, and the correcter/ they are kept, I ſhall
proceed, therefore, to; mention thoſe alterations,
which, I. think, may be of advantage, in the form
of the bills of mortality, in-every part of theſe: king.
doms, over and: above: thoſe: mentioned: by Mr,
Morris, in the before-quoted pamphlet. I. That: there be a diſtin&on- made, upon the
face. of- the. bills of mortality, /between the perſons
who were-born in! the place. where ſuch bills wers
kept, and thoſe' that. were not,, This: will. be ef-
fected with a- very little; trouble, if the ſearchers of
cach pariſh be inftructed to; aſk the queſtion of the
friends of the deceaſed, and annex the anſwer to
their report.” This precaution will facilitate many of the
good purpoſes propoſed by Mr.