Leipzic Trans. vol. i. 1849, and Taxror's Scientific Memoirs, vol. v.
art, xiv.

+ « Explicare tentatur quomodo fiat ut lucis planum polarizationis per vires electricas yel magneticas decli-
netur.” —Halis Saxonum, 1858. MDCCCLXY. 3R


460 PROFESSOR CLERK MAXWELL ON THE ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD.

(2) The mechanical difficulties, however, which are involved in the asswumption of
particles acting at a distance with forces which depend on their velocities are such as
to prevent me from considering this theory as an ultimate one, though it may have been,
and may yet be useful in leading to the coordination of phenomena. I have therefore preferred to seek an explanation of the fact in another direction, be
supposing them to be produced by actions which go on in the surrounding medium as
well as in the excited bodies, and endeayouring to explain the action between distant -
bodies without assuming the existence of forces capable of acting directly at sensible
distances.

(3) The theory I propose may therefore be called a theory of the Electromagnetic Field,
because it has to do with the space in the neighbourhood of the electric or magnetic bodies,
and it may be called a Dynamical Theory, because it assumes that in that space there is
matter in motion, by which the obseryed electromagnetic phenomena are produced. *

(4) The electromagnetic field is that part of space which contains and surrounds
bodies in electric or magnetic conditions. It may be filled with any kind of matter, or we may endeavour to render it empty of
all gross matter, as in the case of GrissLER's tubes and other 80-called vacua. There is always, however, enough of matter left to receive and transmit the undulations
of light and heat, and it is because the transmission of these radiations is not greatly
altered when transparent bodies of measurable density are substituted for the 80-called
vacuum, that we are obliged to admit that the undulations are those of an ethereal
substance, and not of the gross matter, the presence of which merely modifies in some
way the motion of the ether.