While a strong polar current, from
Baffin's Bay pours its cold and less saline waters into the North Atlantic Sea, the large
;Zmass of Asia prevents any north polar current from reaching the south Asiatic sea, into
Zwhich the numerous great rivers of Asia send vast quantities of warm fresh water.
5 As to the south polar currents, we know very little about their influence upon the
Salinity of the southern ocean ; but in Sir James Ross's © Voyage * (vol. ii. p. 133) there
2s an obseryation upon the different specific gravity in different depths, which indicates a
<Sstate of things similar to that in the North Atlantic Ocean. His observations are these :
—_ At 399 16' 8. lat., 177% 2' W. long., the specific gravity of the surface-water 10274,
t 150 fathoms 10272, and at 450 fathoms 1-0268, all tried at the temperature of 60* F.,
-2and showing that the water beneath was specifically lighter than that of the surface when
brought to the sxame temperature ; our almost daily experiments confirmed these results” *,

&

>

©

= The principal currents of the Atlantic, the Equatorial current, the Gulf-stream,
= and the East Greenland current. These three currents are in fact only the same; they begin, as is well known, in the
& Bay of Benin, under the Equator, and the main current runs straight to the west over
S the Atlantic to Cape Roque, on the east coast of South America. I certainly shall not
Stry to lessen the weight of the arguments which assign the cause of this equatorial
S current to the rotatory motion of the earth, but I will only give some remarks as to
8 other influences that act to the same effect.

1f we compare the quantity of salt which is found in sea-water in the region between

* To compare these observations of specific gravity with the quantity of salt in different depths, which I
haye mentioned in the former part of this paper, I shall here refer to some experiments which T have made to
obtain a ratio by which I could compute the quantity of salts in the sca-water from the specific gravity, and
vice vers&, IT have compared, in thirteen specimens of sea-water, the specific gravity with the quantity of
chlorine which the water contained, between 13%75 C. (56%75 F.) and 18%8 C. (6558 F.). It was found that
a unit in the fourth decimal place of the specific gravity of sea-water, measured by the hydrometer, is equal to
Lo5ooy of chlorine, the minimum being 66, the maximum 76.