The mere Mathematician on the other hand,
wants  Peſtulata in Phyſics; or taking things for
granted upon the, Reports of others, comes oiten fo
wrong Concluſions, tho* he reaſons juſtly ; becauſe his
Premiles. are falſe : Whereas he might have been ſet
right in ſeveral caſes, by only obſerving the Operations
of Handycraſt-Workmen, which he had over look'd or
deſpis'd., Men. of warm Imaginations, who wanted
Mechanicks or Matkematicks, or wou'd not apply them
to Phyticks, have peſter'd the Learned World with
Philoſophical Romances, ſuch as the Carteſian Syſtem,
contriv'd for the Diverſion of the lazy and talkative ;
'or Modern Theories, which their Authors, blinded by
Vanity, and urg'd by Obitinacy, have detended to the
laſt, againſt Reaſon, Mathematicks and Experiments ;
nay, and have often for the Support of their Hypothe-
ſes, contriv'd complex Experiments, from whoſe Inac-
curacy they have drawn Arguments to deceive them-
ſelves and others, as much to the diſadvantage of true
Philoſophy, as the Scholaſtick Diſputes. of the Ari/to-
telians; in which, Victory, nor Truth, was contended
for. But the. incomparable Sir 1/aac Newton has not only
ſhorten'd the Geometrician's Work, by his wonderful
Diſcoveries in..abſtrat Mathematicks ; but has alfo
taught us, by his own Practice, how to make, and
judge of, Experiments and Obſervations with, the ut-
molt Accuracy : And as he avoided making Hypotheles ;
he was ſo cautious as co deliver only by way of Que-
ries, ſeveral Truths which he was convinc'd of; becauſe
he. wanted a ſufficient Number of Experiments to make

them as evident as thoſe others, whereby he has ſo
far


( 266 )

far improv'd and advanc'd Natural Knowledge. ' Our
Author has follow his ſteps, aſſerting nothing but
what is evidently deduc'd irom thoſe Experiments,
which he has carefully made, and faithfully related ;
giving an exact Account of the Weights, Meaſures,
Powers and Velocities, and other Circumſtances of the
Things he obſerv'd; with fo plain a Deſcription of his
Apparatus, and manner of making every Experiment
and Obſervation, that as his Conſequences are juſtly
and eaſily drawn, ſo his Premiſes or FaQs may be
judg'd of by any Body that will be at the Pains to
make the Experiments, which are molt of them very
eaſy and ſimple. His Account of every Thing is written in ſuch an
intelligible manner, that the inquiſitive Reader is capa-
ble ot underſtanding it, without being puzzled with
perplex'd Calculations and complex Experiments ;
which Authors have ſometimes contriv'd, in order
ro be acmird for thoſe Things, which they them-
ſelves found out either by- mere chance, or with
very little Labour, He has illuſtrated, and put paſt
all Doubr, ſeveral Truths mention'd in Sir Jſaac
Newtov's Queries; which tho? believ'd- by ſome of
our Eminent Philoſophers, were call'd in queſtion by
others of an inferiour Claſs, who were not acquainted
with thoſe Facts and Experiments upon which Sir
Iſaac Newton bad built thole Queries,

But not to detain my Reader too long in general
Remarks, I proceed to give a ſhort Account of each

Chapter of our ingenious and indefatigable Philoſo-
pher's Book. ;

CHAP.



( 267)
CHAP. I. Experiments, ſhewing the Quantity of Moiſture imbibd
and perſpir'd by Plants and Trees.