SYNTHETICAL RESEARCHES ON ACIDS OF THE LACTIC SERIES. 341

| duction of caproic acid, as above described, shows that the action of these s8ubstances

on each other is susceptible of yet a fourth modification, in which the molecule of

amylic oxalate appears to divide into its two constituent atoms of amyloxatyl (C O Ayo),
which then unite with amyl to form amylic caproate. CO Ayo 2/0 Bu H,
A = 2CAyOA O, Or 4
CO Ayo hn 4 4 CO Ayo
Amylic oxalate. Amyl, Amylic caproate,

The source of the amyl in this reaction is not difficult to discover; for, as above stated,
torrents of the usual products of its transformation (amylic hydride and amylene) were
Fyolved during the operation ; in fact it was obvious that no inconsiderable portions of
he zine and amylic iodide were occupied in the formation of zincic iodide and amyl, a
Zonsiderable proportion of the latter being as usual transformed at the moment of sepa-
Zation into aaylic hydride and amylene.
= 2Ay I+2n"=Zn"l,+Ay,.
=) Meeting with this.reaction, as we have done, only at the close of the above investiga-
Yon, we have not been able to ascertain whether or not it is one of general occurrence.
'E is true that we have not observed the formation of the fatty ethers in any of the
Sregoing reactions in which zinc and the iodides of the radicals were employed ; but

e comparatively low boiling-points of these ethers might easily have led to their

ving been overlooked. We consider, however, this reaction of 80 much importance,
EXT we shall at once endeavour to ascertain whether or not it occurs in the other
Yomologous cases, giving rise to acetic ether in the case of methylic iodide, and to pro-
Honie ether where ethylic iodide is employed.

>
Q
=

' We have already stated that the constitution of the acids of the lactic series has
Feen the subject of fruitful controversy amongst chemists. In this discussion widely
Yifterent opinions have been advanced : some have assigned to lactic acid the formula

gs Hj2 Og), and attributed to it a dibasic character ; some have reduced this formula to

Hz O,, still retaining for the acid the same degree of basicity ; whilst others, again,

ave regarded it as monobasic, and assigned to it the lower formula.