It appears from these results, and estimating the proportion of loss which the
processes of conyersion and reduction may involve at about 0:5 per cent., that the par-
ticular cotton-wool operated upon contained about 0-5 per cent. of matter foreign to
£ellulose, which was eliminated in the course of the transformation and reproduction of
Ahe- latter. But, when less pure samples of cotton were converted as completely as
PSracticable into insoluble gun-cotton, and furnished results from 1:75 to 4 per cent.
wer than those obtained: by similar treatment of the pure material, the weight of the
Secovered cotton indicated a loss upon the original substance employed of from 4-4 to
$3 per cent., an increased loss which must be due to the larger proportion. of foreign
Hatters existing in the cotton operated upon. These facts surely afford strong support
ib the conclusion that the deficiency in weight exhibited by the products obtained from
AZrdinary cotton-wool, even after its purification with alkali, as compared with those
Furnished under the same circumstances by purer cotton-wool, is due to the presence of
reign matters in the cotton, which, though partially retained by the gun-cotton, exist
:$here in the form of products whose formation does not add, in so high a. proportion, to
Ihe original weight of the cotton as does the production of trinitro-cellulose.
2 It follows from the above results, obtained by treatment of the ordinary cotton-wool
Sith a considerable excess of acid, that if the same cotton be treated with the limited
Proportion of acid-mixture (10 to 14 parts by weight to 1 part of cotton) employed in
be ordinary. course of manufacture, the products must then exhibit somewhat less
Ancrease of weight (lower proportions, therefore, than 178 or 180 from 100 of cotton),
Hecause, under those cireumstances, the production of larger proportions of the lower
Sellulose-products (soluble in ether and alcohol) comes into play to cause a reduction in
She weight of the product beyond that which is ascribable mainly to the influence of
Ahe foreign matters in the cotton. Two quantitative operations have been conducted in the ordinary course of manu-
facture at Waltham Abbey, with the view of ascertaining the actual quantity of gun-
cotton furnished by 100 parts of cotton in the ordinary course of operating with con-
siderable quantities of material. In one experiment the cotton employed, which contained about the average quantity
of 8eed, and had as usual the peculiar colour of unbleached fibre, was submitted to the
ordinary purification in the bath of potassic carbonate, and was dried as usual for twenty-
four hours at, 50* C. before immersion in acids.