ESSON ON THE LAWS OF CONNEXION

and if at the commencement of the reaction the substances had been present in infi-
nitely large quantities, 7
g=E 1” 6. 14: 16,06110>[195/ 106 Mohianlece

The curve (6), which expresses the reaction of two substances originally present in
equiyalent quantities, is a rectangular hyperbola, and when the original quantities are
infinite, the residue varies inyersely as the time. This result has been already referred
to at pages 202 & 203, where experimental evidence of' the relation has been adduced. That evidence is, however, somewhat impaired by the fact that the numbers which
express the percentage of chemical change during the first four or five minutes fail to
satisfy this relation ; but it may be shown that this failure is probably due to the
gradual formation of one of the substances which take part in the reaction. Let us suppose that at the commencement of the reaction there are present @ equiya-
lents of a substance A, which during the course of the reaction is gradually changed
into an equivalent quantity of a substance B, and that B reacts with a substance C of
which & equivalents are originally present ; also let be the number of equivalents of A
which remain after an interyal &, and v the number of equivalents of B which remain
after the same interval ; then, since the velocity of diminution of u is proportional to its
quantity, and the velocity of diminution of v proportional to the product of its quantity
into the quantity of c, and the velocity of increase of v equal to the velocity of dimi-
nution of v, we have the following equations,

du

dv

Z=—=eutv) Bu... 3 es eo AD
The solution of (9) is

HESGETS; i.» 16.15. io i EU

s0 that if the residue of w could be measured separately from that of v, the rate of
change of u into v could be determined, but in the actual experiments 4 and v are
determined together, and the relation between the total residue y(=u+v) and the

duration of the reaction & is consequently very complex. Adding (9) and (10), we have,

d;
Z Hew=0;.,. 2, oo, NG
substituting for dx from (9), and for v its value y—u, we obtain the equation
dy z &
the 80lution of which is
22" {0—logu+3u—ra(3u) +.