Better figures of the
mits of some palzeozoic CRINOIDEA were $00n afterwards given by MarTiy LisveR in
s * Description of certain stones figured like plants, and by some observing men
Steemed to be plants petrified”®*: but having unfortunately adopted the erroneous
tion that the Crinoids were the fossil remains of Plants which had lived at a great
th in the sea, he was led to regard the body of the Crinoid as the base of the stem,
Bd its arms as ramifications of the roots. Two years afterwards LisTER published
{ures of some stems of Pentacrinus*, which also he regarded as representing marine
nts, And not long subsequently he was followed by BrauxonT®, who described and ;
ured s0me additional types of paleozoic Orinoidea under the name of © rock-plants |
Fat in the lead mines of Mendip Hills.”
'SIt was under the influence of such misconceptions on the part of the best-informed
Naturalists of the time,—as well as of the doctrine still prevalent among the less instructed,
that fossils are nothing else than © curiously figured stones” deriving their peculiar x
apes from some * plastic virtue latent in the earth,” —that the researches of LuuuyD |
on the fossil CrIxoiDea were commenced; and it is therefore yery much to his credit
that he should have made such an important step in advance, as not only to refer these
xEnains to the same group with the Sea-stars, but also to fix upon that particular |
a-star which we now know under the name Antedon, as the type to which they are
xevst nearly allied. As this fact has been entirely ignored by the recent historians of
(is department of Paleontology, MM. vs Koxixck and 18 Hox® (to whose labours I
GS

- De Rerum Foxsilium, lapidum et gemmarum maxime, figuris et similitudinibus liber. Tiguri, 1565,
S Oryctographia Hildesheimensis, pages 58, 59. 3 Philosophical Transactions, No. 100 (1673). F
« A letter containing his observations of the Astroites or Star-Stones,” in Philosophical Transactions, ,
No..112 (1675). \k
5 Philosophical Transactions, No. 129 (1682), and No. 150 (1683).