Gray, Mr. NoRMAN, and Professor WyviLLe THOMSON,
in reverting to the previous designation given by FREMINVILLE. Although Lawanck clearly differentiated Comatula as a generic type from Asterias,
Iphiura, and Furyale, he was very far from apprehending its most essential peculiarities ;
his description of it is strangely incorrect as regards one of its most prominent,
tures, since he not only overlooked the true mouth, but described the anal funnel as
e mouth, and placed it in the centre of the disk, which is contrary to the fact. © Au
tre du disque infcrieur ou ventral des Comatules, la bouche, membraneuse, tubuleuse
en forme de ac, fait une saillie plus ou moins considerable s8nivant les esxpeces. Ce
ctere singulier, qu'on ne rencontre jamais dans les Euryales ni dans les Ophiures,
Yuble rapprocher les Comatules de certaines Mcdusaires.” (Op. cit. tom. ii. p. 932.)
THis mistake is the more remarkable, as he expresses surprise at not finding the mouth
(Where it actually is) at the point of conyergence of the furrows which pass from the rays
aÞng the ventral surface of the disk :—* Ce sillon, neanmoins, ne &approche point de la
pache, ct ne vient point s'y r6unir, comme cela a lieu pour la goutticre des rayons dans
& Astcries,” Te states, on the authority of PzroxN, that the Comatulz habitually cling
& Fuci or Zoophytes by their dorsal cirrhi, and spread out their rays in search of
cy ; and he goes on to affirm that they lay hold of this with their © grands rayons
pHncs,” and bring it to the mouth with their © rayons simples infcrieurs.” What he
nans by the last-named organs, I do not feel able to determine with certainty, since
tFe © rayons simples ” of his generic definition are © dorsaux” not © inf6rieurs;” and I
at inclined to suppose that he attributes this function to the pinnules springing from
the basal Joints of the arms, which, as he correctly remarks, are © allongces et abaiss6es
«Sus le ventre.” I feel confident, from observation of the habits of the living animal,
fat these pinnules are no more employed in the prehension of food than are the prin-
gpal arms; and TI am inclined (as will hereafter appear, $ 13) to regard that peculiarity of
fYeir character and disposition, which Lamanck was the first to notice, as connected with
tHe sensorial protection of the oral orifice. En this edition we till find LaMarck ranking the Crrxoipres among Polypes; though
I separates them, together with Pernatula, Unbellularia, &c., into a distinct group,
that of Polypinatantes.