Ce
ctere singulier, qu'on ne rencontre jamais dans les Euryales ni dans les Ophiures,
Yuble rapprocher les Comatules de certaines Mcdusaires.” (Op. cit. tom. ii. p. 932.)
THis mistake is the more remarkable, as he expresses surprise at not finding the mouth
(Where it actually is) at the point of conyergence of the furrows which pass from the rays
aÞng the ventral surface of the disk :—* Ce sillon, neanmoins, ne &approche point de la
pache, ct ne vient point s'y r6unir, comme cela a lieu pour la goutticre des rayons dans
& Astcries,” Te states, on the authority of PzroxN, that the Comatulz habitually cling
& Fuci or Zoophytes by their dorsal cirrhi, and spread out their rays in search of
cy ; and he goes on to affirm that they lay hold of this with their © grands rayons
pHncs,” and bring it to the mouth with their © rayons simples infcrieurs.” What he
nans by the last-named organs, I do not feel able to determine with certainty, since
tFe © rayons simples ” of his generic definition are © dorsaux” not © inf6rieurs;” and I
at inclined to suppose that he attributes this function to the pinnules springing from
the basal Joints of the arms, which, as he correctly remarks, are © allongces et abaiss6es
«Sus le ventre.” I feel confident, from observation of the habits of the living animal,
fat these pinnules are no more employed in the prehension of food than are the prin-
gpal arms; and TI am inclined (as will hereafter appear, $ 13) to regard that peculiarity of
fYeir character and disposition, which Lamanck was the first to notice, as connected with
tHe sensorial protection of the oral orifice. En this edition we till find LaMarck ranking the Crrxoipres among Polypes; though
I separates them, together with Pernatula, Unbellularia, &c., into a distinct group,
that of Polypinatantes. He speaks without hesitation of their ramified arms as bearing
polypes arranged in rows (!), and remarks that they are especially distinguished from
Pennatule and other genera of the order of floating Polypes by the articulated structure
of the stem and branches. © Les Encrines,” he says (op. cit. p. 434), © se rapprochent
de I'Ombellulaire par leur ombelle terminale et polypifere ; mais leur tige et leur rameanx
articul6s, enfin la disposition des Polypes qui forment des ranges sur les rameaux de
Yombelle, les en distinguent fortement.” It is singular that 80 eminent a Naturalist
(could haye committed himself to a misstatement of fact s0 extraordinary as that just cited. The publication of LaManck's work was very s00n followed by that of the first edition
(1817) of the *Regne Animal” of Cover, in which the Crixoiea are included (after


684 DR. W.