First Radials.—Fach of these pieces has a well-marked triangular form, the
agical portion of the triangle, however, being deficient (Plate XXXVI. fig. 1, o, 0). We may distinguish its ventral and its dorsal faces (c, D), the former looking towards

concavity of the calyx, whilst the latter is in contact with the centro-dorsal plate ;
internal face (B) bordering the central space of the pentagonal disk ; its two lateral
sRrfaces (B, 7, #) by which it adheres to its fellows; and its external face (a), by
which it is articulated with the Second Radial. The ventral face (0) is divided by two
drved ridges (d, d), bending towards each other along the median line, and there sepa-
rted by a furrow, into a central and a peripheral portion, the former sloping inwards,
& as to contribute to the formation of the central funnel ; whilst the latter slopes
<twards, 80 as in fact to become part of the external face of the plate. 'The dorsal

e (D) is slightly convex, but is free from irregularity, except that there is a deep
=o (4) in the centre of its inner margin. The two lateral faces (B, 7, #) are perfectly
At; and their only feature is a large aperture (9, 9) which each presents towards its
internal margin. The internal face (B), which is comparatively small and irregular, shows
near its dorsal margin a pair of large apertures (e, e), the edges of which are raised
80 as to leave a distinct furrow () between them ; this furrow, which has Shown itself as
a notch in the inner margin of the dorsal face (D, 4) is continued onwards towards the
ventral margin, but is more or less interrupted by the irregular processes which extend
themselves to meet the rosette (4 31), and which not unfrequently complete these furrows
into canals (Plate XXXIII. fig. 1).—The external face is divided by a strong transverse
ridge (4, o, @) into an upper and a lower portion ; and the upper is again divided by a
less elevated transverse ridge, and by median continuations of the ridges already noticed
on the upper surface, into two pairs of foss, 6b, 5, and c, c.