B. CARPENTER ON THE STRUCTURE, PHYSIOLOGY, AND

of parallel rods which 1 have already described, and by their being perforated for the |
lodgment, of a sarcodic axis.” The extended researches which I formerly made on the |
calcareous skeleton of ECHINODERMATA generally ', would lead me to attach but little im-
portance to the form of the reticulation as a differential character, since this often varies
greatly in the several portions of a single plate; and Professor WYvILLE 'FnoMs0N is
forced by his reliance upon it to regard the superficial cribriform portions of the radial
plates and eyen of the arm-joints as belonging to the perisomatic system,—a supposition
which seems to me inconsistent with the fact that the ingrowth of the calcareous reti-
emulation in the First Radials, by which the axial canal is at first formed as a groove and
is afterwards covered in (Q 77), takes place on the cribriform, not on the fasciculated
type. In fact there is no distinction in texture between the endogenous additions by
which the first radials and the basals are respectively thickened; 80 that we cannot
place them in separate categories on this score. But further, we have scen that in the
stage now described, the Basals as well as the Radials are perforated_to give passage t0
the radiating extensions of the sarcodic axis of the stem, which only reach the radials
through, the basals; 0 that this ground of distinction also fails to separate them.—I am
myself disposcd, however, to regard the perforation or non-perforation by the radiating
extensions of the Crinoidal axis as quite sufficient in itself to differentiate the entire
skeleton into two series of plates, which, with Professor WYVILLE TrowsoN, T should
term the radial and the perisomatic; but I should rank the Basal plates with the
former, instead of with the latter.
85. 1 shall now describe the changes which cach of the component pieces of the skeleton
undergoes in its progress towards the type which it presents in the fully-developed An-

[

tedon.
86. Centro-dorsal piece. —Through the whole period of growth, the increase of this

segment takes place at a greater rate than that of any other part of the skeleton ; 80
that it s00n comes to pass beyond the circlet of Basals, and to abut on the proximal
edge of the First Radials; and instead of stopping here, it continues to increase in day
meter, until it conceals the whole inferior surface of the first radials, and sometimes
even encroaches somewhat on the Second (Plate XXXIL. fig. 1).