Theſe, when I viſited my Patients, 1 gene-

-2rally held in my Mouth, baving brought with me long

time ago a good quantity of them from [taly. To rake

away the ill Scent, which was very frequent in the Pa-
=tients Chambers, we ſmoak'd the Rooms with Juniper,

& Vinegar, Powders, Candles, and eſpecially with Gun-

*z powder: But this laſt muſt be carefully made uſe of,

=1 generally had 'red Myrrh and Salt-Petre boiled in Vi-

'Z negar, and ordered it to be poured upon a hot Tyle,

to ſmoak the Room with: And this was done with yery

E little Charge and great Benefit,

& Evacuations were likewiſe by ſome reckoned among
the Preſervatives. © But as that common Proverb, Vis v;
eft repellenda, is: not always allowable, but often hurg-

- ful and dangerous in the PraQtice of Phyſick 3 (o like-
wiſe theſe violent Means occaſioned in the time of the
Plague here a great deal of Harm.

$ A


(130)

A gentle Laxative taken once in  Fortnight, or three
or four Weeks, according to the Difpoſition of the Bo. _
dy, could mot be amiſs'; butir-muſt be-done with/great
Care; and keeping withia Doors. T generally tor that |
purpoſe made uſe of the Eſertia Laxative, which'is now |
conſtantly prepared and 1old' by the Apothacaries, but |
vas firſt tound oar by my Father, who practiſed in this |
Town 6 Years, and at firſt kepr it as a Secret, but af
terwards communicated it to others, It conlilts' of the
Extra#, Pulps Colocynthidis cum Spirits vini parat.” part.
2, and the Solutio Refine jalappe & ſeatrnmonij a pariter |
cum Spirit vini retific. fact, part. 1.” Thele muſt ſtand to |
digeſt 3» Balneo weporis for ſome (Days, "Other Laxa-
tives have been likewiſe ſucceſsfully made-aſe of, if but
ordered at a right time, and the Patient rook «care 'of
bimfUdf. fff Oo 0

But much:more Conſideration and Regard ought to _
be had in 'reſpe&t to Vomiting 'and Bleeding. if we |
ave Regard to '/the Indications, we can, nor-refolve |
upon either 'of 'theſe without Danger. Bleeding is in- ©
deed-penerally allowed, if thePatienty-is Plethorick,1and |
there is Blood enough ; which may be-cafily'by a difte- |
ene and foreign Matter bronght to an*Ebullition, and ©
ſos rarified, and conſcquently requires:adargersfpace; |
and then 'there is an Indication that” it wwants Vent,
But here during the Contagion, we-very ſtldom -per-
{cived any ſuch' Commorion in the Blood, »but nather ©;
obſerved'a Concentration” of ' the"Spirits, and 'a'Defect
of the Natural Heat to prevent which'we were forced ©
roconfider more the Preſervation than the Diminution *
of the Maſs of Blood. | Belides;*theſe can bemno »Indica>
tions how to preſerve Health, conſidering. what -I have |
obſerved as'a 'mortal- Sign in this Diſtemper; 'ro wit, *
Heworrbager. 1f the Hemorrbages had happened criti-
cally, and not ſymptomiartically, which preſently indi- ©
cated a Colliquation, and commonly threatned Death, ©

then *



(237)
- then we might have judged from thence, that Bleeding

.wight contribute ſomewhat towards Preſervation,

1 have been obliged to. accept ſuch Signs as Nature
'offered; who of herſelf ſufficiently. ſhews what is moſt
beneficial, and. alſo what moſt hurtful z becauſe ſucceed-
ing Experience confirms, that the Indications, according
-to the External Signs, have been contrary to one ano-
ther, and therefore cou'd-not inftruc us either how to
preſerve or cure. +)

Sometimes Bleeding in the Plague has been reckoned
- a thing indifferent, which neither cou'd do Harm nor
Good : \But then the Indications were very obſcure, or
wholly fallacious$ yet T- think it were better omitted
\than'ordered, Sometimes one cannot know, whether
the Patient has a Diſpoſition to receive the Venom or
=, not; if he has, Bleeding is abſolutely dangerous; if not,
-ir fignitiesnorhing. Nor is it any eonſequence, that all
thoſe that receive the Peſtilential Venom, muſt be over-
powered and killed by it. v

The Poiſon no doubt continues its Strength to ope-
rate ; but it-finds ſomething that reifts its Operation, ac-
cording to the Diſpoſition and Nature of the Body 3
EZ -which Reſiſtance Phyſicians place inthe natural Heat,

and 'a free Operation -of the Spirits, which by Bleeding
cannot well be preſerved, tho' they may not .always
- be thereby diſturbed.
.