Few, if any; seeds, 1 have reason to believe,
contain-less than three buds, one-only, of which, except-in
cases of accident, germinates; and-some seeds. appear. to/con-
tain-a much greater number. ,/The seed, of the peach appears
to be provided with ten or twelve leaves, each of. which pro-
bably-covers-the rudiment of a bud, and, the seeds, like the
buds of the horse-chesnut, contain all, the leaves and apparently


262 Mr. Kni6nT 01 the Reproduction. of "Buds.

all the buds ofthe Succeeding year :-'and I have never been
able to satisfy myself that all' the buds were eradicated' without
having destroyed the base of the plumule,in which the power
of reproducing buds probably resides, if such-power exists. Nature appears to'have denied to annual and 'biennial-plants
(atleast to:those which have been the subjects-of my-experi-
ments) the power whichvit has given to perennial plants to
reproduce their buds; but mevertheless some-biennials possess,
under peculiar circumstances, a-/very- singular; resource, when
all their buds: have: been” destroyed:: A turnip, bred- between
the English and Swedish variety, from which I had cut off the
greater part of its fruit-stalks, and of which all the buds had
been! destroyed, remained s0me- weeks in» an apparently dor-
mant'state ; after which the'first seed in each pod germinated,
and bursting the seed-vessel, seemed to execute the office ofa
bud and leaves to the parent plant, during the short remaining
term''of its existence;, when its- preternatural foliage perished
with it; Whether this-property be'possessed by other biennial
plants'in common with'the'turnip or not, I am not at present
in possession of facts to decide, not having made” precisely the
same experiment on any other plant. Twill take this opportunity” to correct an inference that T
have drawn in a' former Paper;* which the facts (though quite
correctly stated) do not, on 'subsequent repetition of the ex-
periment, appear to justify. I have stated, that when a per-
pendicular shoot of the 'vine' was inverted. to a' depending
position, and a portion' of its bark between two-circular incisions
round the stem removed; much more new wood was generated
on the lower lip' of the wound become uppermost by the

.