In the same
By I pointed out, however, reasons why it could not, as CARTER imagined, be identical
rgth his Urolabes palustris. The principal anatomical reasons lending 8upport to the
rw of its being an enormously developed free Nematoid, are the following :—it has a
pery wide lateral intermuscular space, but no deyelopment whatever answering to the
ISeral band (Plate XXV. fig. 14, ), and, 80 far as we at present know, this is the case with
other parasitic species, though it is by no means uncommon amongst the free Nema-
tgids for all traces of these structures to be absentf ; the form of the young Guinea-
Forms with their attenuated filiform extremities agrees closely enough with what is of
#Zost common occurrence amongst the free species, whilst if it exists at all amongst the
{Srasitic forms, it must be a matter of the greatest rarity, since the only recorded
stance of any approach to such a length and tenuity of the body posterior to the anus
that Lam aware of is in Passalurus ambiguusÞ; and finally, s0 far as yet ascertained, the
Smmetrical condition of the genital organs, combined with the extreme shortness of the
Ovarian tubes, is a condition which, 8 far as I am aware, can only be paralleled amongst
the dnguillulide. After further careful search IT have till failed to find any trace of
vulva or vagina, and am moreover still inclined to believe, for the various reasons stated
'n my memoir on this animaly, that a resort to the method of agamogenests to account
for the production of its countless young, is not only most in accordance with what we
'know of the history of this animal whilst in the human body, but also most consistent
with the fact of the existence of young in the genital tube in all stages of growth, from
* Trans. of Linn, Soc. vol. xxv. Þ. 126. + Or, at all events, unrecognizable.
+ Ozyuris ambigua of RUDoLPuL. $ Trans, of Linn, Soc. yol. xxiy, p. 126,
MDCCCLXAVI. 4p


610 DR. H. CHARLTON BASTIAN ON THE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY

the smallest germ upwards, at periods when the parent mnst have been actually within
cellular tissue of the human body for no less than eight, nine, or even more months

In all the species of the genus Dorylaimus, before the animals have attained their
adult size, a reserve spear may always be observed imbedded in the anterior portion of
cesophagus, just posterior to- the one in sﬆtu and slightly larger than it.