If we take next the vascular system—accepting thi
views propounded by Professor HUXLEY as to the probable homological identity of thi
water-vascular system of the Scolecidd with the ambulacral system of the Fehinodermal
—there can be little doubt that the s0-called ventral glands in some, and the much mors
developed system of canals in other Nematoids, each having a similar communication
with the exterior, can have their homologues only in these two systems, although thei
relationship is much more marked to the vessels of the Scolecids than to those of the
Echinoderms. In both Nematoids and Scolecids the tubes immediately communicating
with the exterior have been observed contracting and dilating in a kind of rhythmical
manner, and the contents of each have been seen to consist of a clear fluid containing @
larger or smaller quantity of suspended molecules. And the fact that as yet no cilis
have been recognized im any part of this system of canals in the Nematoids—evel
though they are really absent, and their non-discovery has not been due merely to the
intrinsic difficulties of the investigation—seems to be no real objection, since though
Such ciliated prolongations in connexion with the non-ciliated contractile tubes have beef
distinctly recognized in many Trematoda and Twnads, still there are some of the former,
$uch as Distoma excisum observed by HuxLey, and Distoma tereticolle, D. perlatum, and
D. nodulosum, together with Amphistoma subelavatum, according to AUBERT, in which #n0
cilia at all exist in any part of the water-vascular system, 80 that in these Trematoda its
condition is, as it were, diametrically opposed to that which it exhibits in Avgpidogaster” bo
The method of development of these tubes in the Nematoids according to all & priot
poxsibility, and also from what I have seen. in the young of Dracunculus medinenss
appears to be similar to that by which the water-vessels of the Scolecids and the ambw-
lacral yessels of the Echinoderms originate; and for the reasons before tated, I think

* Elements, p. 46. + Med. Times, 1856, ii. p. 635.
+ Med. Times, 1856, i, p. 133. $ Seo p. 597,


OF THE NEMATOIDS, PARASITIC AND FREE. _ 623

7e have strong evidence for the belief that the excretory gland, opening externally in
he &gophageal region of many Nematoids in which, so far as yet observed, the lateral
'2xels are wanting, is the rudimentary homologue of this system of canals, and may be
-onsidered as a permanent record of a transitory stage in their development in other
pecies, as well as in that of the more complex form. of this apparatus usually met with
mongst the Echinoderms and Scolecids.