How
are we to suppose this animal gained access to the intestine of the mackerel! Ib
Seems probable that this occurred either owing to the mackerel haying swallowall
some smaller fish in which the Nematoid existed in an encysted state (in which cas?
we might expect the mackerel to be the proper host of this species in its mature conr
dition), or else we must have recourse to the more improbable alternative, that one of
the encysted individuals, previously to be found beneath the peritoneal membrane, had
contrived in some way to penetrate the wall of the intestine in order to gain that Situar
tion requiaite for its future development. ,

The development of the genital organs does not seem to take place very early. Spe
and

* Professor Levokarr has accepted this doctrine, since it seems most in harmony with anatomical facts,
also best explains certain peculiarities in. the life-history of this parasite,


OF THE NEMATOTDS, PARASITIC AND FREE. 611

ens of free Nematoids may frequently be 8een which have attained more than half
e uual adult dimensions, with well-formed tissues and a fully developed alimentary
al, though still in an asexual condition and presenting no trace of genital organs.
hat is the order of development of these organs in the male, and how 800n the spicules
pear T am unable to say, though T have been able to notice a few facts concerning the
2nesis of this system in the female. Its first rudiments consist of a small mass of
different tissue lying within the parietes of the body, opposite the future situation of
e yulya, and to a certain extent pressing upon the alimentary canal*; and, as T have
pen in species of the genus Mononchus, this gradually increages in size, more especially
a longitudinal direction, its central portion growing outwards 8 as to come into rela-
Sn with a gradually formed aperture through the integument—the future vulva—whilst
iPeither side it is developed into an elongated pyriform mass. So far only have I traced
s process of development; the remaining steps consisting, in all probability, in the
ation, on each side, of an internal cavity in what was at firs a mass of solid homo»
eneous tiggne; the continued growth and separation of the parts into ovary, oviduct,
pl uterus ; and the final differentiation of tisswe by which the textures proper to each
Sment are produced—these stages though easily imagined have yet to be observed.
ith regard to the duration of life in the parasitic Nematoids we have, I believe, no
Juice knowledge ; great variation in this respect would doubtless be met with in dif-
Font 8pecies.