TI have had several opportunities of observing that this is actually the case;
7. e. that the inyariable effect of inflation is to induce an immediate but yery slight


MOVEMENTS OF RESPIRATION ON THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. $589

of pressure. Thus towards the close of my first experiment, August 11th, when
animal had been for a long time under the influence of the poison, and the pulse
increased in frequency, it was found that if artificial respiration was vigorously per-
d at regular intervals, a tracing could be obtained of the character shown in
late XXV. fig. 1, in which it is seen that each injection of air is accompanied by a
nltaneons but very slight elevation of the arterial lever, which, however, was not
associated with acceleration of the heart's contractions: 'DThis experiment was repeated
-under similar conditions on the 8th of June, when a corresponding but not s0 marked
\mechanical effect was observed. 'Ten minutes afterwards both pneumogastrics were
divided in the neck. 'The arterial pressure at once rose to 9 inches, and the pulse attained
'& frequency of 240 per minute. The mercurial column remained at the same height for
Sveral minutes, during which the tracing (Plate XXV. fig. 2) was taken, Here, as in
. 1, it is seen that the diminution of arterial pressure produced by each inflation is
mot accompanied with any acceleration of the heart's contractions*.
5 The facts related in the preceding paragraphs afford no answer to the question whether
fe phenomena observed are due to the direct influence of a&rated blood on the heart
Heelf, or to its indirect influence through the neryous centres over the rhythmical move-
Bents of the heart. Their principal significance in relation to the present inquiry consists ;
A their affording ground for the inference that, whereas the effects of the thoracic
Hovements in ordinary inspiration are almost immediate, a considerable time is required
Sr the production of those which. are due to chemical changes in the circulating blood.

oO
©

S 4. Paperiments as to the relation between the arterial pressure and the thoracic
&S . o
= movements after section of the pneumogastric nerves.

= It is the opinion of Lupwie (Lehrbuch der Physiologie des Menschen, Bd. ii. p. 168)
Hat the increased frequency of the contractions of the heart which follows ordinary
mspiration is in part owing to excitation of the pneumogastric neryes.