HATCHEeTT on an artificial tanning Substance. 22g

A natural process very similar to this, I much suspect takes
place in some cases where peat is formed; I say in some
-cases, because the production of tanning matter does not 8eem
to be absolutely a necessary. consequence attendant on the
formation of peat ; for in many places where the latter abounds,
'the former cannot be detected, whilst in others, it is very
abundant, and acts powerfully on animal bodies which have
accidentally been exposed to its effects. There are many facts of this kind upon record, such as the
-account-of the bodies -of the man and woman preserved in
the-moors near the woodlands in-Derbyshire, and also of tne
woman found in the morass at Axholm, in Lincolnshire.*
Now I am much inclined to believe, that the tanning substance
which 80 much abounds in these and some other peat moors,
did not originally exist in the vegetable 8ubstances from which
the peat has been produced, but that it has been and continues
to be progressively formed (under certain favourable circeum-
stances) during the gradual carbonization and conversion of
/the vegetable matter into peat.

$11. In-most of the former papers which I have had: the honour
to-lay before the Royal Society, I have for greater perspicuity
generally concluded with a recapitulation of the contents, but
in the present case, this appears to be superfluous, as the whole
may be concentrated into one simple fact, namely, that a sub-
stance very analogous to-tannin, which has hitherto been con-
sidered as one of the proximate principles of vegetables, may
at any time be produced, by exposing carbonaceous substances,

* Phil, Trans, Vol, XXXVIIL p. 413+ Ibid, Vol, XLLV. p. 571.


224 Mr. HATCuETT 01 an artificial tanning Substance,

whether vegetable, animal, or mineral, to the action of nitric
acid, vaglq
Since the preceding experiments were made, I have farther
proved the efficacy of this substance by actual practice, and
have converted skin into leather by means of materials which,
to professional men, must appear extraordinary, such as, deal
saw-dust, asphaltum, common turpentine, pit-coal, wax candle,
and a piece of the same sort of skin. Allowing, therefore, that the production of this substance
must for the present be principally regarded only as a curious
chemical fact not altogether unimportant, yet as the principle
on which it is founded appears to be developed, we may hope,
that a more economical process will be -discovered, s0- that
every tanner may be enabled to prepare his leather even from
the refuse of his present materials.