WILDE'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES

31. From an examination of the results of these experiments, it will be seen that when
the submagnet was in direct contact with the electro-magnet, the force required to
separate them was very greatly increased ; but the ratio of this Iincrease, 8s meagured by
the same means as in the former experiments (22), is very considerably diminished ; for
when one magnet was placed on the cylinder, the addition of a second magnet increased
the sustaining-power of the electro-magnet by 66-5 Ibs., whereas when three magnets
were placed on the cylinder, the addition of a fourth magnet was only attended by an
increase. of 28 1bs. in its sustaining-power.

32. But the most extraordinary fact brought out in connexion with the latter series of
experiments, is the development of a much greater amount of magnetism in the electro-
magnet than that which existed in the permanent magnets employed in exciting it ; for
while the four permanent magnets on the cylinder were only capable, collectively, of
sustaining a weight of about 40 1bs., the electro-magnet, as will be seen from the Table,
would sustain a weight of 178:5 lbs.

33. In order that this remarkable property might be exhibited in a more striking
manner, a large electro-magnet was constructed by screwing into a heayy iron block, 6
inches in thickness, two cylinders of wrought iron 24 inches in length and 3+ inches in
diameter. Round each of these cylinders an insulated strand of copper wires, each 950
feet in length and 0-15 of an inch in diameter, was wound from end to end of the cylin-
ders in several concentric layers, and the two electro-helices were coupled up $0 as to
form one continuous helix 1900 feet in length. 'The cylindrical poles of the electro-
magnet were 8} inches distant from centre to centre, and were furnished with a suitable
submagnet, which was connected by means of a link with a strong lever, for the purpose
of measuring the amount of force necessary to separate the submagnet from the electro-
magnet.

34.