RS.

\ Received March 3,—Read March 19, 1868. ET? object of the present paper is to show that the proportion of length to breadth in

<> 8hip, and the form of her water-lines, should be made in a very great degree dependent
Aipon the weight of the material of which her hull is to be constructed—that an armour-
Splated ship, for example, should be made of very different proportions and form from
Shose of a ship without armour, and that as the extent and thickness of the armour to
=be carried by a ship are increased the proportion of length to breadth should be dimi-
Jished, and the water-lines increased in fulness.

b= It is highly desirable that this subject should receive the attention of men of science,

:Aiot only because it bears most directly upon both the cost and the efficiency of future
ron-clad fleets, but also because it opens up a theoretical question which has hitherto,
believe, received absolutely no consideration from scientific writers upon the forms and

Frosistances of ships, viz. the manner in which the weight of the material composing the

hull should influence the form.

2 Prior to the design of the © Bellerophon,' the forms of ships were determined in com-

Zplete disregard of this consideration ; and even the most recent works upon the subject

Sincite the naval architect to aim always at approaching the form of least resistance. EThe following investigations will show, however, that the adoption of a form of least

Eresistance, or of small comparative resistance, may, in fact, lead to a lavish outlay upon

Your ships, and to a great sacrifice of efficiency ; while, on the other hand, the adoption

Sof a form of greater resistance would contribute in certain classes of ships to great

\ economy and to superior efficiency.

& In order to indicate clearly, but approximately 0:
asxume that figs. 1 & 2 roughly represent a long and a $horter ship respectively, both
being prismatic in a vertical sense. The length of fig. 1 is seven times its breadth ;
that of fig. 2 five times its breadth, the middle portion of the latter being parallel for
two-fifths of its length. I will further as8ume that the ship (fig. 1) will give a constant

of 600, and fig. 2 a constant of 500 in the Admiralty formula

nly, the purpose in view, I will first

8peed® x midship section__
"indicated horse-power =constant.