Horkixs applied to the Admiralty for permission to experiment on
-Zthe < Northumberland,” the largest and most heavily armoured ship in the Royal Navy.
:SThe application was in the usual course referred to the Magnetic department, and on a
report that no injury was to be apprehended, the required permission was granted *,

| The first trials were made on the 4th August 1866, and are thus described by
*>Mr. Hoyexixs in a report dated 10th August, and received at the Admiralty a few
days afterwards. * After having ascertained the actual magnetic condition of the ship. Sl applied two of Grovs's batteries of five cells each, with the electro-magnets to the

bs,
Zmain plates at the stern and bow, and in a few hours the polarity of the hull was

A destroyed ” F.

"The results of the observations shown in the General Table, I think entitle me to 8ay
& that there is no foundation whatever for the statement that the polarity of the hull was
VE destroyed ; there is in fact no evidence of its having been affected in even the slightest

s degree. 'To facilitate the examination I subjoin the values of the semicircular deviation

'Z of the two compasses which were most continuously examined in the period comprising

'S the 4th August, viz. the poop and starboard steering compasses ; the position of the
Standard compass being at that time occupied by machinery.

osition that the process was one to be applied
Had I understood that the iron
I should certainly

* That report, for which I am responsible, was made on the supp
to the hull of the ship generally, according to the specification of the patent.
in the immediate vicinity of any compass was to be magnetized to a high degree of intensity,
have reported differently ; and it will bo seen in the sequel that from the results of Mr. Hoyx1N8's experiments,
1 IT was obliged to submit that no such experiments for the future be permitted within 20 feet of any compass

| placed for the navigation of the ship.

4 + This statement was subsequently repeate:

| Science held at Nottingham in 1866, in a paper ** On the Depolarization of Tron Ships,
See Athenzum of September 8th, 1866.

: tion of the Compass,” by Mr. Eyax Horkixs, C.E.

4 at a Meeting of the British As80ciation for the Advancement of

to preyent the Devia-


492 $TAFF CAPTAIN EVANS, R.N., ON THE CHANGES OF POLAR MAGNETISM

Maximum of Semicircular Deviation,

Poop compass.