Again, when the point P is at a cusp, all the (2, 3) conics remain proper conies
((2z1, 3)=(2, 3), First Memoir, No. 73), but each of these (que conic touching the cuspidal
tangent) has with the given curve at the cusp not 2 but 3 intersections, 80 that the total
number of intersections at P is 3(2z1, 3), =3 (2,3), and there is a gain of (2 3) =(2z1, 3)
intersections. Each cusp counts (specially) as (2z1, 3) united points, and together the
cusps count as z(2z1, 3) united points; we have thus the total number z(2z1, 3)+27 of
Special united points, agreeing with the expression Supp. (2, 3)=z(2z1, 3)+Q.

135. As appears from the preceding example, or generally from the remark, ante,
No. 96, I have not at present any & priori method of determining the proper numerical
multipliers of the Capitals contained in the expressions of the several Supplements,
1 will only further remark, that the reason is obyious why (while in the first seven
equations the multipliers are mere numbers) in the eighth and following equations
the multipliers are linear functions of 9; in fact in these last equations the barred
8ymbol is 1, that is, when P is a point in general on the given curve, each of the conics
which make up the curye © has with the given curye not a contact of any order, but an
ordinary intersection at P. Imagine a position of P for which one of these conics be-
comes a coincident line-pair; this regarded as a single line has with the given curye
(m—s) ordinary intersections (4 a number, =4 at most, depending on the contacts
which the line may have with the curve); for each of the m—e points, taken as a posi-
tion of P, one of the conics which make up the curye © becomes the coincident line-
pair, and there are in respect of this conic two intersections at P instead of one inter-
Section only. We haye thus in respect of the particular coincident line-pair a group of
(m—e) special united points, viz. these are the m— ordinary intersections of the coin-
cident line-pair regarded as a single line with the given curve, and we thus understand
in a general way how it is that the order mz of the given curye enters into the expres-
sions of the multipliers of the several Capitals in the last five equations.