A critical eye may well regard the gener

q

* Mr. Fox's apparatus, designed for tho use of the © Terror* in the Antarctic Survey, not having been qt
ready when the © Erebus? and © Terror* 8niled from England in 1839, a smaller apparatus Was supplied |
immediate use ; and the apparatus actually employed (in the < Terror”) in the Survey did not reach that
until he was on the point of sailing from Hobarton in 1840. It was found, however, on careful suþseque
examination that in the two ships the corrections for the deviations of the Inclination and of the Foree
80 nearly the same in the course of the first two years of the Suryey, that the Table computed from the ob
vations of the © Erebus * referred to in the text might safely be employed for the correction of the observau
of these elements in the © Terror.”


| LIEUT.-GENERAL SABINE ON TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISAL. 381
eeordance of the results of the Declination on successive days, or on the return in suc-
 cexsive years to the same localities, as satisfactory to a degree which might scarcely have
\ been anticipated, supposing the existence of the aboye-noticed fact to have been known
and duly borne in mind, viz. that the observed Declinations were subject to variations
- extending to 100 degrees and upwards, according to the direction of the ship's head at
the moment when the compass was observed®.
'\# Tables in which all the required corrections have been applied to the individual
| observations have been prepared, and will accompany this paper with a view to their
| being deposited in the Archives of the Royal Society, in case a reference to them should
be hereafter desired : and from these, General Tables have been prepared showing the
Smean Geographical Positions and the mean Magnetical Values after the application of
-2the Corrections (including the latest of these), together with the number of observations
Sfrom which each result has been obtained. These General Tables are subjoined at, the
Sflose of the paper.
© The intensities of the magnetic Force are expressed in Absolute Value, in British
\Ninits, depending upon the determinations of these values at the Magnetic Observatories
Df Hobarton and the Cape of Good Hope, regarded as the base-stations of the Survey
AContribution X., Philosophical Transactions, 1866, Art. XX. pp. 463, 464). |
© The mean results have been inserted in the Maps of Declination, Inclination, and
tensity of the Force, respectively, and constitute the authorities upon which the
-Zendeavour has been made to trace the genera] course of the isogonic, isoclinal, and
Zisodynamie lines, in conformity with the observations of the Survey. 'The maps with
She lines thus traced upon them have supplied the groundwork for the next step, viz.