XX. pp. 463, 464). |
© The mean results have been inserted in the Maps of Declination, Inclination, and
tensity of the Force, respectively, and constitute the authorities upon which the
-Zendeavour has been made to trace the genera] course of the isogonic, isoclinal, and
Zisodynamie lines, in conformity with the observations of the Survey. 'The maps with
She lines thus traced upon them have supplied the groundwork for the next step, viz. Sthe assignment, as far as could safely be done, of the approximate values of each of the
Sthree elements at the intersections of every fifth degree of latitude between — 40® and
<—90?, and of every 10th degree of longitude from 0* to 360?, thus supplying the nume-
erical coefficients which may be required, in whole or in part, in a revision of Gavss's
= Allgemeine Theorie des Erdmagnetismus.'”
S We learn from the original publication of that important work, in the © Resultate aus
<=den Beobachtungen des Magnetischen V ereins,” im Jahre 1838, and the © Atlas des Erd-
notions, 1840, that the numerical data employed in the calculations were for
Q« twelve meridional points on each of seven parallels of latitude ”—the greater part of
the parallels being taken north of the equator, and none s8outh of —20*. To those who
duly considered the possible influence of this incompleteness of the numerical coefficients,
it will not have been matter of surprise that where these were wanting the result of the
calculations should have been found to differ widely from the facts made known by

* No record appears to have been made of the amount of the ship's © heeling ” at the times of observation ;
in reference to this Mr. Axcnrbatp Sarre remarks in a note to myself, that in the * Erebus,” on North and
South courses, when the effect produced is a maximum, it would only be 30" tan 6 for every degree of heel ;

- Which at a dip of 88? (nearly the highest observed) would give a correction of only about 15 for each degree of
© heel, and may therefore be neglected.
36G@2


382 LIEUT.-GENERAL SABINE ON TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM.
the Survey. The application of the theory professed, indeed, to be simply a first att
from which we were entitled to expect little more than a rough approximation.