The degree of approximation to which it will do this
must depend upon the extent and correctness of the observation-basis from whence the
numerical elements are derived, and upon the order of the magnitudes comprehended in
the calculation. :

<'The evidence which the Plate affords that the calculation in the elaborate work
referred to differs s0 widely from the facts in the southern latitudes, shows how much
observations were wanting in those latitudes for the purpose of perfecting the theory,
and is an ample justification (if indeed any justification were necessary) of the exertions
which the last few years have witnessed to obtain them.”

I am greatly indebted to the Hydrographer, Captain RicfarDs, R.N., F.R.S., for his
kind permission to have the maps which accompany this Number of the Contributions
prepared at the Hydrographic Office, and am particularly obliged to the Assistant |
Hydrographer, Captain Freperck Jonn Evans, R.N., F.R.S., for the very valuable
superintendence which he has kindly given to their preparation and execution. It may be desirable that T should add a few words in explanation of the sense in
which, in the present and in earlier papers, I have employed certain of the technical ex-


LTEUT.-GENERAL SABINE ' ON TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 383

pressions appertaining to this branch of the physical sciences. | Thus:—T have used
the terms magnetic pole and poles in their original and natural sense, as designating
© | those points on the surface of the globe where the intensity of the magnetic force is a
- "maximum in comparison with adjacent localities—in other words, the centres of the
\ Jemniscates into which, at our present epoch in the magnetic cycle, the isodynamic lines
_ of highest intensity resolve themselves. 7
In one of the earliest systematic treatises on the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism
as derived from and resting on observation, (that of HALLey in the Philosophical 'Trans-
actions for 1683,) it is unhesitatingly affirmed, on the evidence of well-assured facts,
that © the globe of the earth may be regarded as one great magnet having four magne-
tical poles, or points of attraction, two of them near each pole of the equator; and that
©in those parts of the globe which lie near any of those magnetical poles, the needle is
chiefly governed thereby, the nearest pole being always predominant over the more
Sremote.” It is in this, its original signification, bearing date 80 early as 1683, that I
Shave employed the term © magnetic pole.” The magnetic surveys which have been 80
\Dearefully and systematically made in the course of the present century over almost
*Sall the accessible parts of the globe, may now be considered to have fully confirmed
= the truth of Harry's remarkable anticipation, and may be claimed in full justification
Sby those who. following in the steps of our sagacious and illustrious countryman, employ
the terms which he was amongst the first to use (and the first to assign to them their
-S true significancy), in the same sense in which he himself employed them. The Halleian
'| S hypothesis, and the incontroyertible facts on which it rested, were for a time obscured
'S by the prevalence of a uniaxial hypothesis, in which the points of maximum force were
2 asumed to be identical with the points where the inclination is 90?; around which, as
'Z their centre, the isodynamic and isoclinal lines were supposed to be arranged symmetri-
\S cally in parallel lines; hence the term magnetic pole came, in the uniaxal hypothesis,
b= to be attached to the points where the inclination is 90*, that element being the easter
= of determination, and consequently the one most popularly regarded. But the accept-
© ance of the uniaxial hypothesis has gradually yielded to the progressive advance of
|S observational knowledge; and one of its ablest expositors (BoT), as far back as the com-
E mencement of the present century, was constrained to admit that, even in the case of
a apparently the most simple of the three elements (viz. the Inclination), a single magnetic
* axis would afford no snfficient explanation of the phenomena, unless it were supple-
mented by the supposition of subordinate centres ; whilst as regarded the known facts
of the Declination and Intensity, they must be held to be wholly inexplicable on the
8upposition of a single magnetic axis (Report of the British Association, 1837, p. 64). Preserving, therefore, the sense in which HALLEY employed the term magnetic pole,
and in accordance with the evidence, now fully established by observation, of the exist-
ence of four such points on the surface of the globe, the magnetic equator is most pro-
perly defined as the line connecting those points in each geographical meridian where
the intensity of the earth's magnetism is less than in any other point situated in the


384 LIEUT.-GENERAL SABINE ON TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM.

same geographical meridian.