If the conditions are completely inde-
pendent (that is, if the corresponding relations, ante, No. 5, are completely independent),
we have a /-fold locus, an 7-fold locus, &c., having no common locus other than the point-
system of intersection, and the number of curves which satisfy the given conditions, or
(as this has been before expressed) the number of solutions, is equal to the number of
points of the point-system, or to the order of the point-system, viz. it is equal to the
product of the orders of the loci which correspond to the several conditions respectively ;
among these we may however have special solutions, corresponding to points situate on.
the special loci upon any of the given loci ; but when this is the case the number of these
special solutions can be separately calculated, and the number of proper solutions is
equal to the number obtained as above, less the number of the special solutions.

10. If, however, the given conditions are not completely independent (that is, if the
corresponding relations are not completely independent), then the &-fold locus, the {-told
locus, &c. intersect in a common («—z)fold locus, and besides in a residual point-system. The several points of the (—/j)fold locus give special solutions—in fact the yery notion
of the conditions being properly satisfied by a curye implies that, the curve shall satisfy
a true (4+I+&.)fold, that is, a true -fold condition ; the proper solutions are there-
fore comprised among the solutions given by the residual point-system, and the number
of them is as before equal to the order of the point-system, or number of the points
thereof, Zess the number of points which give special solutions: the order of the point-
system is, as has been seen, equal to the product of the orders of the k-fold locus, the

t-fold locus, &c., tess a reduction depending on the nature of the common (4—g)fold
locus, and the difficulty is in general in the determination of the value of this reduction.

11. 1n all that precedes, the number of the parameters has been taken to be @; but if


80 PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON THE CURVES

the parameters are taken to be contained in the equation of the curve homogeneously, then
the parameters before made use of are in fact She ratios of these homogeneous para-
meters; and using the term henceforward as referring to the homogeneous Parameters,
the numbers of the parameters will be =o+1. 1
12. I assume also that the equation of the curve contains the parameters linearly :
this being 80, the condition that the curye shall pass through a given arbitrary point
implies a linear relation between the parameters ; and the condition that the curve
Shall pass through / given points, a /-fold linear relation between the parameters. Tt
follows that the number of the curyes which satisfy a given -fold condition, and besides
pass through @—# given points, is equal to the order of the -fold relation, or of the
corresponding #-fold locus ; and thus if we define the order of the þ-fold condition to be
the number of the curyes in"question, the condition, relation, and locus will be all of the
8ame order, and in all that precedes we may (in place of the order of the relation or of the
locus) speak of the order of the condition.