In going on to the cases of the conics touching four or five given curves, the same
principles are applicable; the contact-loci have the Bipoint (a certain number of times
repeated) as a common threefold locus, and they besides intersect in a residual fourfold
or (as the case is) fivefold locus, and the order of the condition is equal to the order of
this residual locus; but the determination of the order of the residual locus presents
the difficulties alluded to, ante, No. 10. I do not at present further examine these cases,
nor the cases of the conics which have with a given curve or curves contacts of the
second or any higher order, or more than a single contact with the same given curve.

23. The equation of the conic has been in all that precedes considered as containing
the six parameters (a, b, c, f, 9g, k); but if the question as originally stated relates
only to a class of conics the equation whereof contains linearly 2, 3, 4, or 5 parameters,
or if, reducing the equation by means of any of the given conditions, it can be brought to
the form in question, then in the latter case we may employ the equation in such re-

duced form, attending only to the remaining conditions ; and in either case we have the
3, 4, or 5 parameters, which parameters are
or 4-dimensional space, and the discussion

s in fact what is done in Annex No. 2

equation of a conic containing linearly 2,

taken as the coordinates of a point in 1-, 2-, 3-,

relates to loci in such dimensional space. This i
MDCCCLXYLIL. (0)


84 PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON THE CURVES

above referred to, where the conics considered being the conics which pass through three
given points, the equation is taken to be fyz+gzv+hay=0, and we have only the three
parameters (f, g, k); and also in Annex No. 3, where the conics pass through two given
points, and are represented by an equation containing the four parameters (a, b, & h): T
give this Annex as a somewhat more elaborate example than any which is previously
considered, of the application of the foregoing principles, and as an investigation which
is interesting for its own sake, See also Annexes 4 and 5, which contain other exam-
ples of the theory. The remark as to the number of parameters is of course applicable
to the case where the curye which satisfies the given conditions is a curye of any given
order 4; the number of the parameters is here at most =4(r+1)(r+2), and the space
therefore at most 47(7+3)dimensional ; but we may in particular cases have +1 para-
meters, the coordinates of a point in «-dimensional space, where @ is any number less
than 47(7 +3).

23, I do not at present consider the case of a curve of the order 7, or further pursue
these investigations; my object has been, not the development. of the foregoing quasi-
geometrical theory, 80 as to obtain thereby a series of results, but only to sketch ont the
general theory, and in particular to establish the notion of the order of condition, and
to show that, as a rule (though as a rule subject to yery frequent exceptions), the order

of a compound condition is equal to the product of the orders of the co

mponent, condi-
tions.