A conic is a curve of the second order and second class ; gua curve of the second
order it may degenerate into a pair of lines, or line-pair (but the class is then=0) : que
curve of the second class it may degenerate into a pair of points, or point-pair (but the
order is then=0). The two lines of a line-pair may be coincident, and we have then a
coincident line-pair; such a line-pair (it must T think be postulated) ordinarily arises,
not from a line-pair the two lines of which become coincident, but from a proper conic,
flattening by the gradual diminution of its conjugate axis, while its transyerse axis
remains constant, or approaches a limit different from zero ; the conic thus tends (not to
an indefinitely extended but) to a terminated line* ; in other words, the tangents of the
conic become more and more nearly lines through two fixed points, the terminations of
the terminated line; and these terminating points, which continue to exist up to the
instant when the conjugate axis takes its limiting value=0, are regarded as still existing
at this instant, and the coincident line-pair as being in fact the point-pair formed by the
two terminating points. Similarly the two points of a point-pair may be coincident,
and we have then a coincident point-pair; such a point-pair (it must in like manner be
postulated) ordinarily arises, not from a point-pair the two points of which become coin-
cident, but from a proper conic sharpening itself to coincide with its asymptotes, and 80
becoming ultimately a pair of lines through the coincident point-pair ; and the coincident
point-pair is regarded as being in fact the line-pair formed by some two lines through the

coincident point-pair.
31. In accordance with the foregoing notions we may with propriety, and it will in

* A line is regarded as extending from any point A. thereof to B, and then in the same direction, from B
through infinity to A ; it thus consists of two portions separated by these points ; and considering either portion
as removed, the remaining portion is a terminated line.

o2


86 PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON THE CURVES

the sequel be found convenient to speak of a point-pair as a line terminated by two
points on this line, and similarly to speak of a line-pair as & point terminated (that is,
the pencil of lines through the point is terminated) by two lines through the point.

32. If in a point-pair thus considered as a line terminated by two points the two
points become coincident (the line continuing to exist as a definite line), or, what is the
same thing, if in a line-pair thus considered as a point terminated by two lines, the two
lines become coincident (the point continuing to exist as a definite point), we haye a
* line-pair-point;” viz. this is at once a coincident line-pair and a coincident point-pair; it
may also be regarded as the limit of a conic the axes of which, and the ratio of the con-
Jugate to the transyerse axis, all ultimately vanish : it may be described as a line termi-

Q nated each way at a point thereof, or as a point terminated each way at a line
A through it.