It is only in a particular case, viz. that in which the
S (»—1)fold locus is unicursal, that the coordinates of a point of this locus can be ex-
2 pressed as rational and integral functions of the order N of a variable parameter 0; and
S consequently only in this same case that the equation of the curves C” of the series of
Z the index N can be expressed by an equation (*Xz, y, 2)"=0, or (#Xz, y, 1)*=0,
= rational and integral of the degree N in regard to a variable parameter 0. If in the general case we regard the coordinates of the parametric point as irrational
© functions of a variable parameter 0, then rationalising in regard to 9, we obtain an equa-
© tion rational of the order N in 9, but the order in the coordinates instead of being =7.
5 is equal to a multiple of n, say gn. Such an equation represents not a single curve but
E q distinct curves C", and it, is to be observed that if we determine the parameter by sub-
- stituting therein for the coordinates their values at a given point, then to each of the N
Z values of the parameter there corresponds a system of q curves, only one of which
Z passes through the given point, the other q—1 curves are curves not passing through
the given point, and having no proper connexion with the curves which satisfy this con-
< dition.

2 Returning to the proper representation of the series by means of an equation con-
5 taining the coordinates of the parametric point, say an equation (#L#, y, 1)" =0, in-
A volving the two coordinates (w, y), it is to be noticed that forming the derived equation
and eliminating the coordinates of the parametric point, we obtain an equation rational
in the coordinates (@, y), and also rational of the degree N in the differential coefficient

= in fact since the number of curves through any given point (a, Yo) is =N, the

differential equation must give this number of directions of passage from the point

d;
(2%, 4%) to a consecutive point, that is, it must give this number of values of =, and must

consequently be of the order N in this quantity. T2


126 PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON THE CURVES

Conversely, if a given differential equation rational in , y, -2 and of the degree N in

the last-mentioned quantity 2; admit of an algebraical general integral, the curves re-

presented by this integral equation may be taken to be irreducible curves, and this being
s0 they will be curves of a certain order 7 forming a series of the index N; whence the
general integral (assumed to be algebraical) is given by an equation of the aboye-men-
tioned form, viz. an equation rational of a certain order 7 in the coordinates, and con-
taining linearly and homogeneously the «+1 coordinates of a variable parametric point.
situate on an (@—1)fold locus. The integral equation expressed in the more usual form
of an equation rational of the order N in regard to the parameter or constant of inte-
gration, will be in regard to the coordinates of an order equal to a multiple of 7, say
=gqn, and for any given value of the parameter will represent not a single curve C”, but
a system of q such curves: the first-mentioned form is, it is clear, the one to be pre-
ferred.