4F2 [

560 PROFESSOR OWEN ON FOSSIL REMAINS OF EQUINES

of Fossil Organic Remains in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons,”
«* Mammalia and Birds,” 4to, 1845, p. 235,

It is unlikely—sceing the avidity with which the Indians of the Pampas have 8eized
and subjugated the stray descendants of the European horses introduced by the Disco-
verers and * Conquistadors ' of South America, and the able use those nomad natives
make of the multitudinous progeny of the Spanish war-horses at the present day—that,
any such tameable Equine should haye been killed off or extirpated by the ancestors of
the South-American aborigines. The circumstances of the discoyery and the fact of the
extinction in South America of a species of Horse would point to 80me other cause than
that of the hostility of man to 80 useful an animal; and we might then in like manner
give the benefit of such doubt as to extinction by human means to the contemporaries
of the Equus curvidens, viz. Megatherium, Tozodon, Macrauchenia, Glyptodon, &e.

I am now able to adduce other evidences confirmatory of the distinctive characters of
£quus curvidens from all known Equines, recent and fossil, of the Old World of geo-
graphers, and at the same time to extend the geographical distribution, in the New
World, of this or a nearly allied species to Brazil and to Central America, in a direction
toward the locality where Lzipy has indicated its remains ®,

With regard to fossil evidences of the Horse-kind in Brazit, we are mainly indebted
to the persevering researches of that excellent naturalist, Dr. P. W. LouxD, who devoted
the last few years of his life, spent on account, of failing health in Brazil, to a most
valuable and instructive inyestigation of the limestone cayerns in the interior Highlands
of that country. In a letter dated © Lagoa Santa, 4th October, 1841,” Dr. Lux commu-
nicated to the Royal Academy of Sciences, Copenhagen, a continuation of his Account
of the Limestone Caves in the Interior of the Highlands of Brazil, in which, among
the contents of the Caye B, Lapa do Bahn, appears © No. 16, Eqws neogeus,” (IV.)
vol.