The least brightness or minimum is represented by fig. 6,
when the bright spots y and x at each extremity of the equa-
torial diameter are mutually but just in sight and a minute one,
r alone on its surface preceding y by 6 days motion : 7 n, are
other middling sized spots near -, but preceding it ; they
cannot for the present be seen, being on the opposite or bright
hemisphere. The spot x during the stars revolution having
lost its light, and 7 being considerably increased, the next
minimum will be between 7 2 and 7, (instead of z and y.) See
fig. 7; and by the retiring of » 7 the diminution of the star's
Iight will continue to take place only until the reappearance
of 7, at the place where y was, which being 6 days sooner than
the former position, (See fig. 6,) reduces the rotation to 56
days. All the foregoing views are from unconnected periods,
where only the ultimate returns of each appearance have been
attended to; but now, I shall examine a long interval with
many intermediate changes, that between June 18th, and
September 17th 1796, wherein are included the most intricate
irregularities and vicissitudes : these observations are already
printed at full length in the Philosophical Transactions for
1797, and therefore can at any time be inspected : indeed, I
then little thought they would ever become of further use, but
that of stating facts, to which, however, I have always been
very partial, and particularly so, after having experienced the
advantage of MakALD1's printed observations on the variable
star in Hydra, as it was partly by them that I ascertained the
periodical returns of brightness of that star, and which flattered
me the more, as MARaLD1 himself had been less successful in


of the variable Star in SOBIESKI's Shield, 149

the attempt; See Phil. Trans. for 1786. Yet in the present
Paper I have omitted all such details, being aware they might
be thought too voluminous, but hope at some future time the
Society will honour them with a place in their library.