But even if these bodies be 80 confined
that an initial resistance is offered to the escape of the gaseous products of their explo-
sion, the violence of the detonation is greatly increased, the development of explosive
force being restricted to the instant of rupture of the envelope by the compressed gases.
'Thus the violence of explosive force exerted by a mall quantity of silver-fulminate, con-
fined in a case of stout shect metal, is very decidedly greater than if a corresponding
quantity be enclosed in metal foil, or freely exposed to air and inflamed in the same
manner. The violence of explosion of iodide of nitrogen has been found to be yery
decidedly increased by enclosing it in an evelope or shell of plaster of Paris, or, better
ﬆtill, in a case of sheet metal, while the chloride of nitrogen explodes with but compa-
ratively little violence unless it is confined. The reputation which this substance has
enjoyed of being the most violent explosive body known, appears to haye been due to
the fact that experiments on its explosion have always been conducted with a covering
of water upon the material. Three or four drops (about 0:14 grm.=2 grains) placed
in a watch-glass covered only with a thin layer of water, explode with a sharp report
when touched with turpentine, and almost pulverize the glass; but similar quantities,
of which the upper surfaces were exposed to air, have been repeatedly exploded in
watch-glasses without breaking the latter. 2 grms. of the chloride, contained in a watch-
glass, and coyered with a thin layer of water, were placed upon a small solid cylinder of
hard papier mach6 which rested upon paying. A violent explosion was produced by
touching the chloride with turpentine, the watch-glass was pulverized and dispersed, and
the cylinder was greatly shattered, fragments being projected in all directions. 4 grms.

of the chloride, with the upper surface exposed to air and placed upon a similar cylinder
of papter macke, produced a comparatively very feeble explosion; the watch-glass was
broken, but the cylinder was not in the slightest degree affected, and remained undis-
turbed in its original position.