If the fulminate be placed in a wide paper cylinder open at the top, which is rested
upon the gun-cotton-surface, or if it be placed in a heap directly upon the surface of
gun-cotton, and if in either instance the violent explosion of the fulminate be effected
through the agency of a platinum-wire placed at the base of the heap, about 2 grms.

25 to 30 grains) of fulminate will also accomplish the detonation of the gun-cotton, the

* If two disks of compressed gun-cotton be firmly attached to opposite sides of the metal case which
contains the minimum charge of fulminate required to produce detonation, when confined, the desired result

will be produced ; but if the disk be simply rested Iooscly against the sides of the metal case, they will only be
violently thrown aside,


THE HISTORY OF EXPLOSIVE AGENTS. 499

violent action of the fulminate being, in these instances, developed by the confinement
of the portions first ignited in a weak envelope, which consists partly or entirely of the
surrounding or superincumbent, fulminate (ee p. 491)*.

6. It need perhaps scarcely be stated that the degree of proximity of the detonating
charge to the gun-cotton, which is essential for the explosion of the latter, is regulated
by the violence of the detonation produced. 0:32 grm. (5 grains) of fulminate enclosed
in a metal cap must be placed in close contact with (7. e. closely surrounded by) the un-
confined gun-cotton, in order to effect its explosion, while 1:3 grm. (20 grains), similarly
confined, will produce the same result if placed at least 05 inch distant from the surface
of the compressed gun-cotton. The foregoing facts appear to point to the mechanical action of a detonation as being
the real cause of the violent explosion of freely exposed gun-cotton or nitroglycerine. At any rate they appear to indicate decisively that such explosion is not a result of the
direct application of the heat developed by the explosion of the detonating materials. If it were 80, then the detonating mixture described as percussion-cap composition, and
other explosive mixtures, the ignition of which is attended by much greater development
of heat than is obtained by the ignition of pure mercuric fulminate, should explode
freely exposed gun-cotton more readily than the latter does; the readiness with which
the gun-cotton is exploded should be solely proportionate to the amount of fulminate
employed; and gun-cotton should be more readily exploded in the loose and open. con-
dition than in the compact and highly compressed form ; for the latter presents it in
the condition least favourable, and the former that most favourable to ready and rapid
ignition by heat.