The mode of coincidence of the lines and planes, and the several distinct lines and
planes which are situate in or pass through the several distinct planes and lines TeSPec-
tively, are shown in the annexed diagrams I to XXT#*: the multiplicity of each line

* See the commencements of the seyeral sections.


238 PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CUBIC SURFACES.

appears by the upper marginal line, and that of each plane by the left-hand marginal
column (thus in diagram I, 27 X 1=27 and 45 X1=45, 1 is the multiplicity of each line;
and it is also the multiplicity of each plane); the frequencies of aline and plane in regard
toecach other appear by the dots in the square oppoxite to the line and plane in alicia;
these being read, for the frequency of the line vertically, and for the frequency of the

plane horizontally ; thus *< indicates that the frequency of the line is =3, and the

frequency of the plane is =2, There should be and are in every line of the diagram
3 dots, and in every column of the diagram 5 dots (a symbol : : being read as just
explained, 2 dots in the line, 3 dots in the column).

22, For the surface I=12, there is of course no distinction between the lines,
but these form only a single class, and the like for the planes; but for the other sur-
faces the lines and planes form separate classes, as shown in the diagrams by the lower
marginal explanation of the lines, and the right-hand marginal explanation of the
planes, T use here and elsewhere *ray” to denote a line passing through a single node;
*axis” to denote a line joining two nodes; * edge” (as above) to denote the edge of a
binode; any other line is a © mere line.” An axis is always torsal or oscular; when it
is torsal, the plane touching along the axis contains a third line which is the © trans-
versal” of such axis; but a transyersal may be a mere line, a ray, or an axis; in the case
XVI=12—4C,, each transyersal is a transversal in regard to two axes.

23. In the general case I=12, each of the 27 lines is, as already mentioned, part of

the node-couple curve; and the node-couple curye is made up of the 27 lines, and is
thus a curye of the order 27. In fact each plane through a line meets the cubic surface
in this line, and in a conic; the line and conic meet in two points, and the plane (that
is in any plane) through the line is thns a double tangent plane touching the surface at
the two points in question ; the locus of the points of contact, that is the line itself, is
thus part of the node-couple curye. But in the other cases, TT to XXI, certain of the
lines do not belong to the node-couple curve (this will be examined in detail in the
several cascs respectively); but I wish to show here how in a general way a line passing
through a node, say a nodal ray, is not part of the node-couple curve. To fix the ideas,
consider the 8urface II=12—C, ; there are here through C, six lines, or say rays:
attending to any one of these, a plane through the ray meets the surface in the ray itself
and in a conic; the ray and the conic meet as before in two points, one of them being
the point C,: the plane touches the surface at the other point, but i& does not touch the
s817face at C,. (I am not sure, and TI leaye it an open question, whether we ought to say
that at a node C, there is70 tangent plane, or to say that only the tangent planes of the
nodal cone are tangent planes of the surface ; but, at any rate, an arbitrary plane through
C, is n0t a tangent plane.) The plane through the ray is only a single tangent plane,
not a double tangent plane; and the ray is not part of the node-couple curve.