CaENnEvix on the Action of

The observation of any new/fact becomes a matter of generat
concern, and truly worthy of /philosophic contemplation,”ther
only, when-its influence iis likely'to be: extended beyond the
Single instance; to which-it owes its discovery. Whether-water
were a-sImple body or a' compound: could have been' of little
importance as; an.insulated fact; but; connected with 'the vast
chain of reasoning it: gave 'rise'to, it: opened a-new'field for
genius to explore. If in the present case our researches were
to be confined merely to-ascertaining whethey palladium were.
a simple metal or a compound, all: the -adyantages likely-to.
arise from the facts observed during the:inquiry would be losty
and an object. of the most comprehensive interest would thus
sink' into,a,controversy Cconcerning-the jexistence-of one more
of those substances, which we have dignified with the name of
elements. ;/It was in this point of view-that Mess! RicuTEr and
R1TTER considered the subject as far as! they went, and a-few
facts are stated in my first Paper in-support of the opinion, that
palladium is but, a particular. instance' of a general truth, 4"

By taking the reasoning on this; subject then; in its; widest
extent,; we: Shall be led; I think, to the-following conclusion :
That metals may exercise an-action'upon. each, other, even in
their-metallic state, capable of-$0- altering 'some;of: their prin-
cipal . properties-as-to render the, presence of one- or. more of
them not to be detected by the usual methods. /:-In-this is'con -
tained 'the- possibility of. a compound metal appearing to 'be
simple ; but to prove: this-must be: a-work- of: great; time and
perseverance ;-and can only: be; done [by cansidering singly
and successively the different cases which it contains, -and by
instituting experiments upon each. - When an affinity which
unites two bodies, and $0 blends their different properties/as to


Platina and Mereury upon each other. 117

make them apparently. one, has taken'its full effect, it will not
be easy to separate them ; and this will be more particularly
the case when'neither' of those substances is remarkable for
exercising a/ powerful action upon others. The method of
analysis therefore does '\not promise much 'success ; and the
labour of synthesis is sufficient to deter any individual from
the undertaking.