Kn1curT concerning the State in which

numerous buds penetrated through the bark in every part,
many leaves of large size every where appeared, and in the
autumn every part was covered with. very vigorous shoots
exceeding, in the aggregate, two feet in length, The number
of leaves Which, in this case, sprang at once from the trunk
and branches appeared to me greatly to exceed the whole of
those, which the tree had born in the three preceding seasons ;
and I cannot believe that the matter which composed these
buds and leaves could have been wholly prepared by the feeble
vegetation and scanty foliage of the preceding year. But whether the substance which is found in the alburnum
of winter-felled trees, and whigh disappears in part in the
spring and early part of the summer, be generated in one or
in several preceding years, there seem to be strong grounds
of probability, that this substance enters into the composition
of the leaf: for we have abundant reason to believe that this
organ is the principal agent of assimilation ; and scarcely any
thing can be more contrary to every conclusion we should
draw from analogical reasoning and comparison of the vegetable
with the animal economy, or in itself more improbable, than
that the leaf, or any other organ, should singly prepare and
assimilate immediately from the crude aqueous sap, that matter
which composes itself,

It has been contended * that the buds themselves contain
the nutriment necessary for the minute unfolding leaves: but
trees possess a power to reproduce their buds, and the matter
necessary to form these buds must evidently be derived from
some .other Source; nor does it appear probable that the young
leaves very 800n enter on this office: for the experiments of

» Trwomox's Chemistry.


the true Sap of Trees is deposited during Winter. 97

Incexnnouz prove that their action on the air which surrounds
them is very -essentially different' from that of full grown
leaves: | It is/true that buds in many instances will vegetate,
and- produce trees; when-a very; small portion only of albur-
num remains attached to- them ; but the first efforts of vege-
tation in such buds are much more feeble than in others to
which a larger quantity: of alburnum is attached, and therefore
we have, in this, case, no grounds to suppose that the leaves
derive their first nutriment from the crude sap. It -is -also - generally admitted, from the experiments of
Boxxer and Du Hamer, which I have repeated with the same
result, that in- the cotyledons of the seed is deposited a quantity
of nutriment for the bud, which every seed contains; and
though. no. vessels' can be traced* which lead immediately
from the cotyledons to the bud or-plumula, it is not difficult to
point out a more circuitous passage, which is perfectly similar
to that through, which I conceive the sap to be carried from the
leaves to the buds, in the $ubsequent growth of the tree ; and
I am in. possession of many facts to prove-that seedling trees,
in the first stage of their: existence, depend entirely on the
nutriment afforded by the cotyledons ; and; that they are
greatly injured, and in many instances killed, by being. put to
vegetate in rich mould. We: have: much more decisive evidence that bulbous and
tuberous rooted plants-contain the matter within themselves
which subsequently- composes their Jeaves; for-we see them
vegetate even in dry rooms, on the approach of spring ; and
many. bulbous rooted plants produce their leaves and flowers
with nearly the same. vigour. bythe application of water only,

* Hepwic,
MDCCcv, O


98 Mr. KnrenT concerning the State in which

as they do when growing in the best mould: But'the water-in
this case, provided that it be” perfectly pure, probably affords
little or no food to the plant, and acts only by dissolving the
matter prepared and deposited in*the preceding” year z and hence
the root becomes exhausted and spoiled: and HassEnFRATz found
that the leaves and flowers and roots of such plants afforded no
more carbon than he had proved to exist in bulhous roots of the
same weight, whose leaves and flowers had never expanded.