Carnumaers snggested
=that these organs were points from which roots had been given off. Such, however,
Zannot have been the case, since in the specimens in which they occur they exist
=throughout the entire length of the stem from its base to its summit. Moreover they
are located in the centre of the cellular tissue of the wpper part of each primary medul-
Yary ray, whilst, as I shall immediately demonstrate, there is abundant evidence proving
hat the roots were given off from the lower part of each internode. 'The position
Sf these canals in relation to each internode of the stem—their isolation, internally amid
the cellular tissue of the medulla, and externally in that of the primary medullary ray
2—the obvious mode of their formation, 1st, by the rupture, and, 2nd, by the absorption
Sf those cellular tiswes—the entire absence from every example yet examined of all
"trace of vascular tisswe, either in the medulla from which they spring, or in that accom-
Spanying them in their outward course—and finally, the circumstance that they are
Zulways filled with the same inorganic material as that which occupies the fistular cavi-
Sties of the pith, are facts pointing irresistibly to a common conclusion, viz. that these
organs were narrow canals, arranged in a verticil immediately below the transverse medul-
=lary septum of each node, and that they formed channels of communication through the
owoody zone, between the uppermost part of each internodal fistular cavity and the inner
Surface of the bark*, Being fully convinced that such is their true nature, I propose to
Erocognize them by the name of © infranodal canals ” instead of < yerticillate medullary
radii,” which I formerly applied to them.
5 In the tangential section now figured, these canals exhibit an ob7ong contour ; in all
Qthose described in my preceding memoir on the subject they were round. It will be
seen that these differences correspond with what we find in the more ordinary, structure-
less Calamites of this class occurring 80 frequently in beds of shale and sandstone. Having described the more important varieties of structure scen in our specimens, I
will now endeayour to correlate these with the common forms s0 frequently seen in
cabinets.

® T haye represented one of these canals at 7 in the restored fig. 1, but having no conception what effect they
had upon the bark, T have represented the latter as extended across their open extremities, This arrangement
of the bark is purely hypothetical ; the canals may haye penetrated it as well as the ligneous zone,


A

Hitherto nearly all phytologists, with the exception of Mr.