For still water, however, I have shown above that this
a is by no means true in many ships; and it is only proper to add that some authors of
standing have recently put forward views on this point which are not borne out by my
= calculations. For example, even Professor RANKINE, speaking of a ship that tends to
= hog in till water, says*:—* Let M be a transverse section which divides the ship into
<£ two parts, each separately water-borne (and which is seldom far from the midship sec-
S tion); then at the section M .....
'2 on he adds, * in the case of a ship that tends to sag amidships the greatest bending-
Z moment is till at M ..... . being a sagging-moment instead of a hogging-moment.”
= Having proved above that the *greatest bending-moment ” in ships which * tend to sag
= amidships ” falls not at M but in the fore or after bodies, I need not dwell at length on
-5 the too hasty inference here made. Tt will suffice to say that the section of greatest
= £2 8agging does in such cases sometimes come near the middle of the ship ; but in Plate
5 XVI. fig. 7 we have an illustration of the fact that it may come considerably abaft the
S middle ; and there are doubtless cases in which it comes before the middle, its actual
S position being determined, as Professor RAxXKINE himself states, by the position of the
central section of water-borne division. "This sagging-moment, however, is by no means
S *the greatest bending-moment ” experienced by the ship, the distribution of weight and
— buoyancy determining whether the true maximum bending-moment is experienced by
S 8ome section in the fore or after body. I may add, that without accurate calculation
E it is generally possible to tell which body has to bear the greatest strain, by simply ob-
5 8erving at which end the excess of weight is greater. For example, in the * Victoria and
Albert” the excess of weight over buoyancy is greater at the bow than at the stern, and
the section of absolute maximum bending-strain falls in the fore body ; had the reverse
been true, the section would have fallen in the after body, as it does in the cases of the
© Bellerophon” and © Audacious.” Professor RaxKIxE, while recognizing the existence of
these sections of maximum hogging-moment, does not seem to have noticed the fact that
the strains at them would generally be more severe than those at the section of maximum

8agging-moment.