The part of the cartilage which bears the two trenchant front teeth I consider to be
the zomer (Plate XXXIV. fig. 3, v). It is very similar in form to the yomer of many
Teleosteous fishes, and has two free lateral edges, whilst behind it is suturally connected
with the pterygo-palatines; it is entirely cartilaginous, and passes into the sphenoid car-
tilage above the symphysis of the pterygo-palatines. 'The corresponding part in Lepido-
8ren has been regarded by Professor OwEN* as the intermaxillary, and by Professor
Biscnory, PerERs, and others as belonging to the ethmoid or nasal bone, Professor
Biscnovy and PeTERs considering the cartilaginous space behind the palatal arch to be
= yomer. From the fact that the vomer occupies nearly always the same position in

e 8kull of fishes, and from the frequency of its being armed with teeth, I conclude
Fhat this part of the Ceratodus-skull is the vomer. A. comparison with the skull of

enopoma will also much assist in determining it as such.

2 Towards the upper surface of the skull the vomerine cartilage passes into the ethmoid
nasal portionf, which is easily distinguished by its double perforation by the olfactory
merves (Plate XXXV. fig. 1, 0, and fig. 2, 07); its upper surface has a thick osseons
Jayer (Plate XXXTIV. fig. 1, 6, and Plate XXXV. 5), which appears as a distinet trian-
lar bone without median suture, the apex being directed forwards, whilst its base
Jet a serrated suture with the frontals and sclero-parietal; anteriorly it passes into
ET rostral cartilage.
5 The frontal bones (Plate XXXTV. fig. 1, ec, and Plate XXXY. fig. 1, c) are entirely
Separate from each other; their anterior portion, which forms part of the border of the
Haxol cavity, and also the upper edge of the orbit, is very solid and closely connected
Svith the underlying cartilage; it emits, in front of the orbit, a strong, broad, concave
Srocess (c) for union with, and support of, the upper molar. 'The posterior part is an
Sbblong, thin lamina, extending to the hindmost edge of the skull, to which it is fastened
Dy fibrous tissue; this part covers the temporal muscle, and is attached by squamous
Sutures to the tympanic lamina and sclero-parietal. It is the same bone which appears

8 a free process on each side of the head of Lepidosiren; Professor OWEN determined

Ait as postfrontal (Trans.