Hence finally, assuming that every covariant of a degree inferior to m2 is F(U), it follows
that every covariant of the degree m is F(U); whence every covariant whatever is F(U),
viz. it is a rational and integral function of the 23 covariants U.

364. It will be obseryed that, writing A, B, C for P, Q, #7, the proof depends on the
theorems

((AB), C), a linear function of A(BC)*, B(CA)*, C(ABY,
(AB, C)? r- by do. do. do.
((AB), Of, » ((AOP, B, (BOY, A), B(AC}, C(ABY,

which are theorems relating to any three functions A, B, C whatever.

365, I remark upon the proof that the really fundamental theorem seems to be that
which I haye called theorem A. As to the forms W it is difficult to see & priori why
8nch forms are to be considered, or what the essential property involved in their definition
is; and in fact in a more recent paper, © Die Simultanen Systeme biniren Formen ”
(Clebsch and Neumann, t. 2 (1869), see p. 256), Professor GoRDAXN has modified the defi-
nition of the forms W by omitting the condition that the order of the function shall
exceed n; if it were possible further to omit the condition of at least one index being
= or<Jn, and 80 only retain the conditions n—1, n—/, &c., each of them >0, then the
essential property of the forms W would be that any such form was a rational and inte-
gral function of the special covariants formed, as above, by means of the quantie of the
next inferior order. And moreoyer, as regards the theorem B, there seems something

AMDCCCLXXT. I


50 PROFESSOR CAYLEY'S NINTH MEMOIR ON QUANTICS.

indirect and artificial in the employment of snch a property; one sees no reason why,
when a system of irreducible coyariants is once written down, it should not be possible
to show that the derivatives of F(U) with the original quantic F are each of them F(U),
instead of having to show this in regard to the derivatives of F(U) with the several cova-
riants x: as regards the quintic, where there is a single covariant x, the guadric function
i, there is obviously a great abbreviation in this employment of # in place of F; but for
the higher orders, assuming that the proof could be conducted by means of the quantic
F itself, it does not appear that there would be eyen an abbreviation in the employment
in its stead of the several covariants x- The like remarks apply to the proof in the last-
mentioned paper.