And similarly the theory as it stands
gives a non-existent irreducible coyariant (a. .Y(a, y)”. The theory being thus in error,
by reason that it omits to take account of the interconnexion of the syzygies, there is no
difficulty in conceiving that the effect is the introduction of an infinite series of non-
existent irreducible coyariants, which, when the error is corrected, will disappear, and
there will be left only a finite series of irreducible covariants. Although I am not able to make this correction in a general manner 80 as to show
from the theory that the number of the irreducible covariants is finite, and so to present
the theory in a complete form, it nevertheless appears that the theory can be made to
accord with the facts; and I reproduce the theory, as well to show that this is s0 as to

MDCCCLXXI, D


18 PROFESSOR CAYLEY'S NINTH MEMOIR ON QUANTICS.

exhibit certain new formulze which appear to me to place the theory in its true light. I remark that although IT have in my Second Memoir considered the question of finding
the number of irreducible covariants of a given degree 0 in the coefficients but of any
order whatever in the variables, the better course is to separate these- according to their
order in the variables, and 80 consider the question of finding the number of the irre-
dncible covariants of a given degree 9 in the coefficients, and of a giyen order w in the
variables. (This is, of course, what has to be done for the enumeration of the irreducible
coyariants of a given quantic; and what is done completely for the quadric, the cubic,
and the quartic, and for the quintic up to the degree 6 in my Fighth Memoir, Phil. Trans. 1867.) The new formule exhibit this separation; thus (Second Memoir, No. 49),

writing @ instead of a, we have for the quadric the expression JR showing
that we have irreducible coyariants of the degrees 1 and 2 respectiyely, viz. the quadric

itself and the discriminant: the new expression 1s , Showing that the cova-

act tee
(1—az?®)(1—a*)
riants in question are of the actual forms («, . ., y)* and (a, . .)* respectively.