But
in this more ancient Diprotodont the premolars anterior to the last large one have not
undergone the extreme degradation which they show in the tertiary fossil (Thylacoleo)
and in some existing Diprotodonts of Australia. They are modified, in Plagiaular, for

- 8ectorial function, and are 80 combined with the last and largest sectorial as to work with
it as one instrument, obliquely ridged and notched at the convex cutting-margin, like a
section of a circular saw. TI have elsewhere* pointed out the advantage of this modifi-
cation of carnassial in dividing the integuments and other tissnes, tougher and drier

S than those in Mammals, of the lacertian members of the cold-blooded class which 80

Sabounded with the small carnivorous Marsupials in the same Mesozoic period and place.

jE Tf it be admitted that, so far as the lower jaw and its dentition show, Plagiaulan
=S(figs. 10 & 15), with its two or three reduced anterior premolars, its suddenly enlarged
hind premolar, its disproportionately small and few (two) tubercular molars, and its

Slarge laniariform upcurved incisor, comes nearest to 7hylacoleo (figs. 8 & 14), it is plain,

Zrom the antecedent comparisons with existing Diprotodonts, that there are no grounds
>for inferring the Macropode to have been derived from the Paucidentata, or these from

SRat-kangaroos.

= What we do learn from consideration of the fossils in question is, the fact of an addi-
ional and most interesting modification of the Diprotodont section of the Marsupial

-2order or subclass, unknown before the discovery of these fossils. We further learn that

Z8uch modification, which, from the extreme reduction of the true molar series, I have

Sheen led to take as the character of a © paucidentate” family of Marsupials, was
already established at the Purbeck period; yet with modifications interestingly exem-
Splifying the tendeney to the © more generalized condition of structure” as compared
<=with the newer tertiary extinct form.

5 $ 17. Tendency from the general to the particular in the Dentition of the Paucidentate
= Marsupials—But I am here met by another objection.