To think or
reason otherwise would be simply to argue in a circle, as thus:—*All carnassial Mar-
supial genera have incisors as well as a canine; ergo, no Marsupial genus with a laniarj-

* Owes's © Anatomy of Vertebrates,” vol. iii. p. 293. + X. p, 351; XI, p. 434. PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA. 247

form tooth not preceded by incisors can be carnivorous. All phytophagous Marsupial
genera have a pair of developed incisors, approximated and placed collaterally in the
lower jaw as in placental Rodents; ergo, a Marsupial fossil mandible with such incisors
must be of an herbivore.” But it is affirmed :—* the incisors of Plagiaulan are framed,
in regard to number, order of suppression, collateral poxsition, and relation to the premo-
lars, in exact correspondence with the type of the Marsupial herbivores, snch as Zalma-
turus, Hypsiprymnus, and Phascolarctos, and wholly at variance with the Carnivorous
type”®, And if considerations of the shape of the incisor, modification of its working end,
angle of its projection, degree of curvature of the tooth, evidence of its temporary growth
or otherwise be set aside, the same may be affirmed of the lower incisors of Thylacoleo.
= Any one enjoying a sense of confidence in the impossibility of a modification of the
Sdiprotodont type of Marsupial dentition for carnivorous habits may well dispense not
2only with a consideration of all those characters of the teeth in question which truly
Spoint to their function, but also of the modifications of size, shape, and number of the
molar teeth associated with such pair of lower laniariform incisors.
© LI am not cognizant of any facts subversive of the Cuvierian principle as to the teeth
Swhich should first be observed in an unknown fossil by the palzontologist in quest of
the nature of its food, and I cleave to the belief of their primary importance as throwing
Slight on the problem to be solved.
ie T have qualified Dr. FaLcoxnER's generalizations even when restricted to existing Mar-
pials, as * alleged.” Let me recall to the recollection of his followers some of the
-Zinstances which invalidate the general ayerments adduced to show that Thylacoleo and
3Plagiaulaz must be herbivorous because diprotodont. S The small insectivorons Marsupial Tarsipes combines with its two © well-developed.