This
reaction is 80 delicate that I learnt from it a thing I had not before observed, that the
least refrangible line of 6, the triple line of magnesium, is really a little longer than its
more refrangible companion ; for the spectrum of magnesium was reduced to this one
line in an alloy in which special precautions had been taken to introduce the minimum
of magnesium. It follows from this statement that not only is the spectrum-analysis almost infinitely

more delicate than it has hitherto been supposed to be in the case of the elements in
= which the difference between the longest and shortest lines is least*, but that in time
D, it may become quantitative ; for if the admixture of certain other bodies extinguishes
*S the shorter lines of metallic spectra, it would seem that a series of carefully executed
&Z maps of the spectra of alloys, the proportions of the constituents of which are known,
72 will place in our hands the means of determining (roughly it is true) by mere inspection
the quantity of the songht metal present in an alloy, the composition of which qu that
= metal is unknown. At the same time it is clear that further progress must be made
-2 before such a method can be practically employed in the arts,
Although the working hypothesis which has suggested the various lines of research
> which have been followed is, I think, sufficiently clear, I refrain from dwelling upon
DV it until other researches now in progress enable me more fully to judge of its value, and
2 to state at greater length the various conclusions which may be drawn from it.

= Application of these Observations to the Solar Spectrum.

— These observations have an important bearing upon the solar spectrum, for the reason
D that, as is well known, all the lines known to exist in the spectrum of an element sup-
= poxed to be present in the sun's atmosphere are not in all cases reversed.

5 Before I proceed to give the facts in detail it will be well to go over the prior work
Q of Kironnovy and Axasrr6x, to ec precisely the evidence on which our present know-
ledge of the elements in the solar atmosphere, as determined by Kincnnoyy's method of
solar observation (that is, the non-localization or integration of the various solar
regions, such as spots, faculze and chromosphere), rests. Kinennoyy, in his paper referring to FRAUNNOFER's prior determination of the double
line D being coincident with a double line observed in the spectrum of sodium vapour,
locates sodium vapour in the solar atmosphere, as Professor Srokes had done before him,

* The great lengths of the lines of sodium, lithium, &e. at once account for the delicacy of their spectrum
reactions. MDCCCLAXII. 2N


262 MR.