The reyersal in the direction of the secular change of the Declination possibly took place at York Fort, as
it may haye done at Toronto, somewhat earlier than 1842-5; it is impossible to speak with certainty in regard

to the precise epoch of the reversal at Toronto, because the Magnetic Observatory at that station was only esta-
blished in 1840,



GENERAL SIR EDWARD SABINE ON TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 357

bank ” at Portsmouth, in 1836 and 1837, 10-23 in British units, which in Professor
Enxax's Table (Reise, p. 579) has the corresponding value 1:33019 in the scale adopted
by him. The ratio thus established between ERrMaN's scale and the corresponding values
in British units, when carried back to the value assigned in the © Reise* to the Force at
Kamtschatka (viz. 1:47370, p. 576), shows an amount of loss in the magnetism of the
needle employed which may well be deemed insignificant in a voyage which lasted an
entire year, and in which the magnetic instruments were in constant employment. T have again to express how greatly these Contributions have been and are indebted to
the Hydrographer of the Admiralty, Admiral Ricnarvs, F.R.S., for his kind permission to
have the Maps (which accompany this and former Numbers of the Contributions) prepared
Qat the Hydrographic Office ; and have again to make my special acknowledgments to
the Axistant Hydrographer, Captain Freperrck Jonux Evans, R.N., F.R.S., for the very
Zraluable superintendence which he has kindly given to their preparation and execution.

= Those who are familiar with the records of our early British navigators, the honoured
Spredecessors of our modern British Polar Voyagers, will scarcely need to be reminded
Sof their Magnetical Observations, bearing testimony to the fact that at that early period
Srndlinations of a much higher value than those which are now observed in the same
localities prevailed on the coast of Norway, and in the Spitzbergen and Nova-Zembla
S8eas. The careful and apparently dependable observations of HExRY Hups0N and others
Sin the first years of the 17th century contain the record of systematic observations
"3 exceeding 80* of Inclination (viz. from 80? to upwards of 86*) in localities where the
Inclinations are now fully 10* less. It was at that period the frequent practice to
Sobxorvo the Inclination at sea on days suitable for the obseryation, and great attention
S appears to have been given to the subject: no doubt the instruments of those days were
8less precise than modern ones; but, on the other hand, the very small amount of iron
= then used in the construction of ships must have obviated in great measure the chief diffi-
S culty attaching to more modern magnetic determinations at sea in the higher latitudes.