ANALYSIS OF CERTAIN ALLOYS BY MEANS OF THE SPECTROSCOPE. 499

Curve 4.

'The range of alloys is the same as those given in the preceding curve; but the method
used was that employed in obtaining Curve 2, and it is interesting as illustrating the
change introduced into the form of the curve by varying the method by which the
spectral lines were observed. Practical Considerations. It is impossible to foresce to what analytical operations the new method may be found
to be applicable; but as the experiments hitherto have been mainly directed towards the
development of a new method of assaying gold, it is advisable that attention should be
LL, limited to the relative advantages of the old and new methods,
Q We ascertained by careful experiment that the amount of alloy actually volatilized
© during an observation in no case exceeds 00001 grm. ; and it is interesting to compare
this with the amount of metal usually employed in assaying gold, which varies from 05
Z to 1 grm.
= Tt may be objected that the amount of metal employed in the new method is very
*B 8mall ; but granting the accuracy of the method and the homogeneity of the alloy, there
3 is of course no reason why the composition of a gold ingot may not be ascertained by
Z it as accurately as by the old method.
= It is now well known, as previously mentioned, that the existing method is usually
E accurate to the -g455 part of the portion of metal operated upon, the process possessing
© in addition to its accuracy many incidental advantages, not the least of which is the
S Po=ibility which it affords of detecting, at different stages of the work, the presence of
&* metallic impurities, such as iridium,
8 On the other hand, it should be observed that the method now in use comprises six
FI distinct operations, and two hours are occupied in ascertaining the final result of the
= as8y; and as it is frequently important to determine the value of an ingot of gold with
g rapidity, it will be obvious that the new method possesses marked advantages in this
& respect, for by its aid a result may be obtained in a few minutes.
© In conelusion, we would submit that experience alone can show whether this new
S process may be made as trustworthy as the existing method ; and we would draw atten-
tion to the fact that hitherto there has not been absolute identity in the conditions
under which the several experiments were made; for instance, the intensity of the
current employed to yolatilize the metal varied from time to time; and this, together
with other defects, mainly arose from the fact that we have as yet considered the pro-
blem solely from its scientific aspect, and haye not provided ourselves with instruments
well adapted for satisfying all the conditions which may arise in practice. Whether this new method be found preferable to the old one or not, the fact has
been clearly established that it is Possible to detect, by its means, differences in the com-

PoSition of the gold-copper alloy as minute as the 10555 part of the whole mass.


b ST
= "lu y F

Phil. Trans MDCCCLAXIV.