As types of y the red stars may be quoted, the spectra of which are composed
= of channelled spaces and bands, and in which naturally the blue end is closed. Hence
2 the reversing layers of these stars probably contain metalloids, or compounds, or both,
E in great, quantity ; and in their spectra not only is hydrogen absent, but the metallic
5 lines are reduced in thickness and intensity, which in the light of V., ante, may indicate
= that the metallic vapours are being ass0ciated. It is fair to assume that these stars are
= of a lower temperature than our sun.
= I have asked myself whether all the above facts cannot be grouped together in a
= working hypothesis which ass8umes that in the reversing layers of the swn and stars
Z various degrees of * celestial dissociation” are at work, which dissociation preyents the
= coming together of the atoms which, at the temperature of the earth and at all artificial
E temperatures yet attained here, compose the metals, the metalloids, and compounds.
= On this working hypothesis, the 80-called elements not present in the reversing layer

of a star will be in course of formation in the coronal atmosphere and in course of
destruction as their yapour-densities carry them down ; and their absorption will not
only be small in consequence of the reduced pressure of that region, but what absorp-
tion there is will probably be limited wholly or in great part to the invisible violet end
of the spectrum in the case of such bodies as the pure gases and their combinations and
chlorine (se I. ant#).

'The spectroscopic evidence as to what may be called the plasticity of the molecules
of the metalloids, including of course oxygen and nitrogen, but excluding hydrogen, is
s0 overwhelming, that even the absorption of iodine, although generally it is transparent


I ”

;j_—
IN CONNEXION WITH THE SPECTRUM OF THE SUN. 493

to violet light, may (as Thave foundin a repetition of Dr. Anprews's experiments on the
dichroism of iodine, in which T observed the spectrum) in part be driven into the violet
end of the spectrum, for iodine in a solution in water or alcohol at once gives up its
ordinary absorption properties and stops violet light *. A preliminary comparison of the ordinary absorption-spectrum of a stratum of 6 feet
of chlorine renders it not improbable that chlorine at a low temperature is the cause
of some of the FrRauNnorER lines in the violet, although, as said before, T have not yet
obtained certain evidence as to the reyersal of the bright lines of chlorine seen in the

x jar-spark.
| There is also an apparent coincidence between some of the faint FrRavxnorER lines
+ and some of the lines of the low temperature absorption-spectrum of iodine.