The inner, or the gecond lateral
digit of the manus is supported by the trapezoid ; it is not, however, limited only
to this bone, but leans a little over the inner edge of the third metacarpal, and goes to
touch the os magnum, which presents a special facet to this second metacarpal. We
may sece this typical relation in the second digit of the Anoplotherium tridactylum
(Plate XXXVII. fig. 2), in the rudiment of the second metacarpal in the Paris Anoplo-
therivm from the gypsum (ee DB BLAINVILLE, Anopt.), and in the very complete fore
foot of Hippopotamus and Hyopotanus (Plate XXXVIL. figs. 1 & 20, 11. 7, m). In the
posterior limb, the inner or second metatarsal is supported entirely by the second cunei-
form (the homologue of the trapezoid), and by the tibial edge of the great or third
cuneiform(the homologue of the os magnum), as may be seen in Hippopotamus, figs. 9 & 10,
Anoplotherium, fig. 11, Hyopotamus (Plate XXXVIIL. fig. 2), and Anthracotherium®.

'The outer or fifth digit of the manus and pes in all Ungulata Paridigitata (and, in
fact, in all existing Mammalia) is supported by the same carpal bone as the fourth.
"There is not a single exception to this rule; and in all Mammalia, wherever the fourth
and fifth digits of the manus and pes are present, they are always supported by one bone
—the unciform in the manus, and its homologue (the cuboid) in the pes. Seeing that the full number of digits in Mammalia is five, while the number of carpal
and tarsal bones which give support to them never exceeds four—three inner digits
being supported each by a separate bone, while the two outer are always supported by a
single carpal and tarsal bone—the question may arise, is this relation primitive for all
Mammalia ? oris it a result of coalescence of two outer carpal and tarsal bones into one? As we have not the slightest notion of the skeleton of the firs: mammals, nor even of the
geological time when they made their appearance, the solution of this question is not
to be expected now.