Bu!
on the ossiferous caves of England. After the publication of the © Reliquize Diluviane
the subject in its general bearings was regarded as pretty well exhausted, so far at
as concerned the uniformity of character in the fossil remains found in the caverns,
their being referable to a single geological period. Since 1823 the interest in the subj
has gradually fallen off; and it is probably not overstating the fact to say that there
hardly a general geological question in which the majority of geologists in this count
take less interest at present than in what relates to the ossiferous cayes. 'The subj
has not advanced * pari passu ” with the progress in the investigation of the Upper Pli
cene and Postpliocene deposits.

« Tt was understood that Dr. BUCKLAND before the close of his valuable life had intended
to bring out a second edition of the © Reliquiz Diluvianz,” in which some of the ques-
tionable views 80 earnestly advocated in the original work would have been greatly
modified; but unfortunately the design remained unaccomplished, and the popular:
opinions in the caye-districts where collections were amassed haye been mainly regu-'
lated by the doctrines embodied in the work as published in 1823.

«'The consequences have been thus:—the Tunnel caves like © Kirkdale,' which were

haunts of predaceous carnivora, and the Fissure caves like © Oreston,” that were filled
from above, have been popularly regarded as containing the d&bris of the same mam-
malian fauna, and as having been overlaid with their ochreous loam by the same common
agency at the ame period. 'The contents of the different caverns were thus considered
as being in great measure duplicates of one another; and the exceptional presence of
certain forms in one case and their absence in another were regarded more in the light
of local accidents than as significant of any general source of difference. Hence it fol-
lowed that more attention was paid to the extrication of the bones and to securing good
specimens, than to a record of their relative association and the order of SUCCESSION IN
which they occurred.