Parts
have ſeemed to endeavour to get away, and have
frequently ſoon after been found miſſing, Boys and
ordinary People are generally poſieſied of an Opinion,
that they unite and grow together again after their
Separation. Now, if it could once be allowed, . that Animal
Life and Senſation might ſubſiſt but an Inſtant, in both
Parts of the Creature, after its Scaion; the whole
remaining Difficulty would be only as to the Cure of
the Wounds, and the Reproduttion of the neceſſary
Organs that are wanting. And, for the firſt of theſe,
we know very well, that the more imperfe& Ani-
mals are killed with much greater Difficulty than the
more perfe&t, their Vitals being more diffuſed, and
their general Organization being, I ſuppoſe, far more
ſimple than that of the higher Tribes: And as to the
other, I think no one will ſee any Impoſlibility in
the Reproduttion of certain Parts, after what we have
ſeen and read of, in the Lobſter and Cray-fiſh Kinds,
who when they chance by any Misfortune to loſe a
Claw, reproduce it in a ſhort time, with all its Joints,
and the proper Muſcles for moving them ; all which
appears as difficult as the regaining of a Mouth and a
Tail to ſome of the J/orm-kind; whoſe general Or-
ganization being ſimple, and conſiſting chiefly of only
one ſtrait Gut, or Paſſage, from-the Month to the

Vent,


[ 233 ]

Vent, they ſeem to want little more to reproduce
cither, than a Contraftion of the Wound, with the
Aſſiſtance of the Muſcles that move the ſeycral Ringsof
which the Body is compoſed; and eyery.qne of which,
in its firſt and natural State, performs almoſt the ſame
Motions as are neceſſary for Suction or EjcQion : the
latter of which we have even ſometimes ſeen very
S .Wondertully ſupplied in our own Species, in thole
YT Caſes, where grievous Wounds of the Inteſtines have
Z Pur Nature upon trying to perform her Operations in
= anew Way.
= Upon the Whole,” we are all very deſirous to
=D fee Monſieur Reaumur's Memoir on this curious
S Subjet; we hope it will ſoon be publiſhed, when,
As his curious and exa&t Experiments will afford
Z infinite 'Entectainment, / ſo! his judicious Remarks
= Upon them! will doubtleſs be no- leſs 'inſtruttive;
S bur will, in all Probability, give a Light into thelc
> Matters we do not yet think of: In the mean time
© 1 could not help juſt mentioning to you, what came
& into my own Head on' the- Occalion, hoping thar
s Hhoweveryou may look oh wy Thoughts as the Dreams,
E Perhaps, of a Man bewildered in his Inquiries into
£ Nature, you will (ll belieye me'to -be a firm and
conſtant Loyer of Truth, and ready at-all/times to
receive and embrace whatever is really ſuch, however
S oddand{ufprilingitmay at the firſt chance to appear.
= 1 ſhall therefore, only add one or wo Facts I ſhould
8g indeed have mcntioned before, when 1 was ſpeaking
of the Difficulty of killing ſome of the Tribes of
Inſects and Reptiles; which are, that I have myſclf
ſeen the Hearr of a Yjper continue its regular Beats
More than Six Hours aſter it had been taken out of
he H h the


[ 234 ]

the Body : That 1 haye ſeen that Body move. and
icem alive to all Purpoſes for a great Part of the ſame
time, after having loſt the Heart ; and that I have ſeen
/Vaſps, whoſe Heads had been taken off, creeping in
the Window the next Day; and Butterj/zes that have
lived; and attempted even to fly, ſeycral Days after
undergoing the fame ſeyere- Operation. Inſeas (eem at firſt to ſuffer but little from the Loſs
of their hinder Parts, although theſe contain moſt of
their /7/zera ; nor does the Lols of Limbs ſeem to
affect them in any Proportion to the more perfect
Animals. | But cyen in our own Kind, in Infancy,
before the Parts haye loſt all their Softneſs, much
greater Wounds may be received without Lols of
Life, than afterwards. If we go yet further back to
our Embryo.