Through a tube only 6 inches long detonation was accomplished by means of 108
grains (7 grms.) of fulminate; but the result was doubtful with 100 grains (6:5 grms. ). It therefore appears that in order to accomplish the detonation of gun-cotton through
the medium of transmission afforded by a narrow tube, at a distance of not more than
6 inches, it is necessary to use at least fifty times the quantity of fulminate, strongly
confined, which is required to ensure detonation when the © detonator” is in clos6 con-
tact with the charge. This result presents a marked contrast to the fact demonstrated
by the experiments described in the transmission of the detonation of gun-cotton from
one mass to another, through the agency of tubes,—that the detonation of 0:5 ounce
(14:2 grms.) of compressed gun-cotton will induce that of another mass of gun-cotton
if separated from it by a tube, of a particular diameter and thickness, 2 feet in length,
the distance which thus separates the two masses being about ninety times greater than
that through which the detonation of 0:5 ounce of gun-cotton, exposed in all directions,
could accomplish the explosion of another mass of the compressed material.

1f, however, the quantity of confined mercuric fulminate employed as the initiative
charge be increased not yery considerably beyond that (154 grains=10 grms.) which
is only just sufficient to detonate gun-cotton through a tube 1 inch (025 m.) in
diameter and 9 inches long, very different results are obtained. 219 grains (0'5 ounce
or 142 grms.) of confined fulminate were employed, in wn firs instance, in
conjunction with tubes of 1-25 inch (-031 m.) diameter and 2 feet long, and the
detonation of gun-cotton inserted in the opposite extremity of the tube was accom-
plished; on gradually increasing the length of the tubes (of the same diameter)
employed, it was found, moreover, that the above quantity of fulminate would induce
the detonation, with certainty, of gun-cotton through a tube five Feet long, in which
the same quantity of compressed gun-cotton would only induce detonation of the same
substance, under the same conditions, through a distance of two feet (:608 m.). The
power of the fulminate to develop detonation by transmission through considerable
distances was still more strikingly demonstrated. 'Two tubes of the same diameter
(1:25 inch) and substance, one of them 5 feet (1:52 m.) and the other 1 foot
(:304 m.) long, were placed on the ground end to end, 80 as to form a channel 6 feet
(1:82 m.) long. The two ends of the tubes were brought together as closely as
possible, and they were then covered with a piece of paper, over which was heaped a
little sand.