In an embryo pig 1 inch in length, («, 6, c) the primordial cranium is completely
constituted as a cartilaginous whole, formed by the coalescence of the investing mass
and its exoccipital and superoccipital prolongations, the modified trabeculze, the 8ub-
Pituitary cartilage, the auditory capsules, the alisphenoidal and orbito-sphenoidal carti-
lages, and the olfactory capsules. 'The notochord is still to be seen extending in the
middle line from the hinder wall of the pituitary fossa (now the clinoids of the sella
turcica) to the posterior edge of the occipital region.

(4) The trabecular arches form the sides of the sella turcica, the presphenoid, and
the base of the septum between the olfactory capsules ; in front, where they form the
azygous prenasal or * basitrabecular” element, they are developed backwards as
* recurrent bands,” elongations of the free recurved cornua.

(2) The pterygo-palatine arches, still increasing in size, but not chondrifying, now
rapidly ossify ; they are half-coiled laminz bounding the posterior nasal passages.

(F) The mandibular arches and the rudimental ramus have become solid cartilage,
and the latter is ossifying as the dentary ; the distal part of each mandibular rod unites
with its fellow for some distance.

(9) The hyoid arches are now more fully segmented as incus, with its orbicular
head, interhyal, stylohyal, and ceratohyal.

(4) The thyrohyals are merely larger and denser.

(7) The olfactory capsules have now the turbinal outgrowths all marked out as ali-
nasal, nasal, upper, middle, and lower turbinals.

4. In pigs of larger size the form and proportions of all the parts of the cranium
become greatly altered, and ossfication takes place on an extensive scale, but no new
structure is added.

5. It follows from these facts that the mammalian skull, in an early embryonic con-
dition, is strictly conformable with that of an Osseous Fish, a Frog, or a Bird at a like
period of development, consisting as it does of ;—

MDCCCLAXIV. 2x


330 MR. W. K.