There is no
doubt, therefore, that the Burntisland plants exhibited the same nodal expansion of the
bark that, we find in the Lancashire type. It will further be observed from Plate V.
fig. 27, g', that the inner and middle barks accompany the branch in its outward course, as
might haye been anticipated, supposing my interpretation of this structure to be
correct. After combining the facts which T have enumerated, T have no doubt that these

® Tt is interesting to find that M., Rexavur has discovered solitary branches in some of his Autun gspecimens
occupying exactly this position, He says respecting them, ** Les rameaux que j'ai eu occasion de ene
encore adherents 4 la tige 6taient s0litaires 8ur leur articulation.” * Cenx que J'ai observ6s 6taient toujours
orient6s de facon & 6tre contenus dans le plan de un des angles saillants de Vaxe central de 1a tige” (toe. cit
P- 8, plate i. fig. 3).—February 9, 1874.

+ IL Rexavrr's discovery of the position and origin of the true foliar bundles already referred to (pp. 45 & 48)
leaves no room for doubting that these deflected laminw have been connected with a lateral branch, and not
merely with Teaves, since we have een that the exogenous lamine do not contribute to the formation of the
merely foliar bundles, —February 9, 1874,


OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES, 53

Burntisland stems are examples either of the genus Asferophyllites or of Sphenophyllum. The absence of leaves in these Scotch specimens renders it impossible at present to deter-
mine with which of these two genera they ought to be associated, Before attempting
to ascertain the bearing of these facts upon the question of the systematic position of the
plants, we must examine some other organs which, I am now satisfied, belonged to
similar plants. The first inquiry which snggests itself is, What are the relations snbsisting be-
tween the stems described in these pages and the numerous fruits that have been
described and figured by various observers on previous occasions?