There was not the
slightest difficulty in at once indicating the exact direction from which the sound pro-
ceeded.

«By 9 A.M. the atmosphere had begun to clear in the west, and as the day advanced
the fog rolled slowly eastward. At 10 A.M. the line of demarcation between fog and
clear atmosphere was a little to the eastward of the pier; and there was a marked dif-
ference between the sounds at this period and those of the early morning, a very sensible
diminution in power being noticeable.

* Mr. 'Trovcurox's report of this last day's observations is to the following effect :— *
At 8 A.M. dense fog all round; frosty : steamed out to get upon bearing of E.S.E. from
lighthouse, 2. e. at right angles to the axial line of the syren and horn.

«At 10.10, supposing that the vessel was not far from the K.S.F. line, and (allowing
for the set of the tide and distance run as shown by the patent log) the distance from
the lighthouse being apparently near 11 miles, stopped the vessel and heard syren and
horn equally powerful, the sounds being thoroughly good and serviceable.

+ Mr. TrovGuToN further states that he could locate the position from whence the
ound proceeded with the greatest ecase, and that he took his bearing from the South
Foreland by the aid of the sound alone.

* At this position a wreck-buoy was dropped, the fog being at the time exceedingly
thick.

* At 10.18 the fog began to break, and the sounds were not again heard.

© At the Vane light-ship, 12% miles from the lighthouse, the master reports that from
8 A.M. to 10.30 a.M. they heard the © horns distinet but not loud.”

« At the South Sand Head light-ship the sounds were plainly heard on Thursday,
Friday, and Saturday during the fog.”

The results here recorded are of the highest importance, for they bring us face to face
with a dense fog and an actual fog-signal, and confirm in the most satisfactory manner
the previously recorded obseryations. 'The fact of Captain ATKINS and Mr. EDwARDS being
awakened by the sound of the syren, proves, beyond all our previous experience, the power
of the sound on the 7th of February. It is important also to note that through the same fog the sounds were well heard at
the South Sand Head light-vessel, which is in the opposite direction from the South
Foreland, and, as will immediately appear, actually behind the syren.