By degrees, convectic
currents from the sea, of no great vertical thickness, are drawn into this lower stratun
introducing vapour, which carries the heat by diffusion and condensation to a greate
and greater height. Up to the end of May or the beginning of June this diffusion
heat, while reducing the pressure, does not lower the temperature of the surface ; a
it is only when in June a strong steady current of nearly saturated air is drawn fro
the equatorial seas, that the precipitated vapour, partly as cloud and partly as rain
evaporating, absorbs the excess of solar heat and reduces the temperature of the lower
atmosphere to the extent shown in the temperature Table. There is yet another point of importance to be noticed in the Tables on pages 608, 60
While the stations at the lower levels, Goalpara and Roorkee, as well as all others
on the plains, show but one annual maximum and one minimum of pressure, the former
in December, the latter in June or July, the two hill-stations (Darjeeling and Simla
have two maxima and two minima, like places on the Atlantic coast of Purope.
epochs of the maxima and minima are, however, very different in the two cases.
absolute minimum of the year at these hill-stations coincides with that on the ane

and is doubtless due to the same cause ; but the absolute maximum falls in Novem!

at the former, and is followed by a fall, at first rapid, and gradually decreasing till March,
A small rise then takes place, which brings the mean pressure of April above that
February; it is, however, only temporary, and in May and June the pressure falls
rapidly to its minimum.

* The facts thus indicated relative to the effects of temperature and vapour in affecting pressure 8eem to
explain the apparent anomalies that haye led some authors, especially Mr. Lav@nros (Phys. Geog. pp. 120,
123), to question the soundness of Havrer's theory of the trade-winds, Theso are, that winds do not blow
centripetally toward the Sahara, the Arabian Desert, the interior of Australia, &c., all of them dry regions with
a day temperature yery much aboye that of the neighbouring seas.