As to 8mell, there is hardly any odour, pure and simple, which will cause distinct
manifestation of olfactory sensation in a monkey ; and one must study the habits of the
animal carefully, or employ some volatile substance which will cause reaction. These,
however, such as ammonic and acetic acid, act conjointly on the nerves of common sen-
sation and on the special nerve of smell. 1 have found, however, by careful experi-
mentation on a patient who had lost both taste and 8mell as the result of a blow on the
head, that ammonic and acetic acid, and particularly the latter, cause much less reaction
than they do when both systems of neryes are intact. Confirmations of this will be found among the experiments narrated.

'The reaction to acetic acid, which I frequently used to test the sensibility of the nostrils,
is only a comparative test, and reaction caused by it, when applied to the nostril, is not
to be regarded as an indication of smell ; but the absence of reaction would show that
the sensibility of the nostrils had been entirely lost ; while a less reaction in one nostril
as compared with the other would fairly indicate some abnormal condition of the nostril,
the exact cause of which is capable perhaps of explanation by other facts. In this case the reaction to the vapour of acetic acid was distinctly less in the left
nostril than in the right. (The left nostril is, as will be noted, the same side as the
lesion in the hemisphere.)

As to taste, no exact experiment was made. 'The right side of the tongue was
touched with a rod dipped in perchloride of iron; but, owing to the nature of the
substance and the diffusion in the mouth, nothing could be ascertained accurately, though
T thought that there seemed to be less immediate reaction on the right side than on
the left,

The animal had not lost its appetite, for it drank milk and ate 8ome food offered to it. Hearing, as was noted, did not scem affected, as the animal reacted as usual to sounds,
turning its head, &c.