The cases of a less-than-s-dimen-
Sional yolume are in the present memoir considered only incidentally. It is scarcely
necessary to remark that the notion of density is dependent on the dimensionality of the
element of volume dw: in passing from a spatial distribution, g dx . . . dz dw, to a snper-
ficial distribution, g dS, we alter the signification of g. In fact if, in order to connect
the two, we imagine the spatial distribution as made over an indefinitely thin layer or
stratum bounded by the surface, 80 that at any element dS of the surface the normal
thickness is dy, where dy is a function of the coordinates (7... 2, w) of the element 45,
the spatial element is =d» dS, and the element of mass g dz. . . dz dw is =g d» dS; and

MDCCCLXXY. 4x


676 PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON PREPOTENTIALS.

then changing the signification of g, 80 as to denote by it the product g dv, the expression
for the element of mass becomes g dS, which is the formula in the case of the superficial
distribution. The space or surface over which the distribution extends may be spoken of as the
material space or surface ; 80 that the density g is not =0 for any finite portion of the
material space or surface ; and if the distribution be such that the density becomes =0
for any point or locus of the material space or surface, then such point or locus, consi-
dered as an infinitesimal portion of space or surface, may be excluded from and regarded
as not, belonging to the material space or surface. It is allowable, and frequently con-
venient, to regard g as a discontinuous function, having its proper value within the
material space or surface, and having its value =0 beyond these limits; and this being
80, the integrations may be regarded as extending as far as we please beyond the material
Space or 8urface (but 80 always as to include the whole of the material space or surface)—
for instance, in the case of a spatial distribution, over the whole (s+1)dimensional
space; and in the case of a superficial distribution, over the whole of the s-dimensional
surface of which the material surface is a part.