Iſhall only add, that he ſays,
when, he, the firſt, time, ſaw. two complete Animals
forming themſelves from the Parts of one Polypus cut
aſunder, he did not know how to believe his Eyes; and
that he can hardly. yet ſee it without freſh Amazement, |
after Experiments a hundred and a hundred times re-
peated. He ayoids, he tells us, entering into further De-,
tails of Particulars, as theſe will be ſeen in the Work _
Mr. Trembley is aQually finiſhing upon this Head ; the ©
Publication of which, he fays, would be; expected |
with the utmoſt Impatience, if the Public could know,
as he does, how many curious Facts they will there
find; and with what Pleaſure they will read the Ac-
count of the ingenious Means, by which that Gentle-,
man has enabled himſelf, to come at the Knowledge of

fo many (trange and fingular Truths, , ll

Theſe


[ xv]
Theſe Experiments were no ſooner known among
the Curious in France, but it was preſently imagined,
theſe InſeQs were. not the only Species: to which Na-
fure had | given ſo extraordinary a-Faculty.: And
numberleſs Obſervations were, made to that Purpoſe,
Monſieur Bonnet was not long before he found a very
flender Water-worm;, of about an-Inch- and a half
long, that had the fame Property 3 and Monſieur ,y9-
& ett dilcoyered another above three Inches long, and
a Of the Thickneſs of the Treble String of a Violin, that
Z being cut into, 30,and 40. Parts, afforded the ſame
= Phznomena, Monſicur Reaumur was deſirous, if
gobble, to ſec the Succeſs of theſe Experiments in
ome Animals of a larger Size; and inclin'd- to be-
S lievc ſome Sea Productions, not very unlike in Shape
Z to thelc Freſh-water ones, together with other Bodies
Z among thoſe diſtinguiſhed .by the Name of Urtice
2 Marine, and Star-fiſh, might not improbably be en-
> dowed with. the like Faculties; - he engaged 'Monſieur
3 Guettard, and Monſieur Faſſien, to be. aſliftant in
2 making Variety, of Experiments by the: Sca-ſide, 'on
Z theſe ſeveral Sorts of Bodies ;- the firſt was on the
S Coaſts of Poiffon, the other on thoſe of Normandy ;
Sand they were ſoon ſufficiently ſatisfied, the fame
+ Laws of Nature had Place in theſe Sorts of Animals
& allo. Many of the Star-fiſh Kind particularly, and
Z Which uſually conſiſt of five equal Radii or Arms,
E were found wanting, ſome one, others two, three, or
= four, of thoſe Radii; and Nature was reproducing
S in them the Raz; wanting.