One of these
is the condition of continuity ; the function V and all its derived functions must vary
continuously as we pass, without trayersing the material plane, from any given point to
any other given point. But it is sufficient to attend to points on one side of the plane,
say the upperside, or that for which e is positive; and since any such point is acces-
sIble from any other such point by a path which does not meet the plane, it is suffi-
cient to say that the function V must vary continuously for a passage by such path from
any such point to any such point ; the function V must therefore be one and the same

422


694 PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON PREPOTENTIALS,

function (and that a continuous one in value) for all values of the coordinates (@\.'s 9}
and positive values of the coordinate 6. If, moreover, we assume that the distribution which corresponds to the given potential
V is a distribution of a finite mass [edw . . . dz over a finite portion of the plane w=0,
viz. over a portion or area such that the distance of a point within the area from a fixed
point, or say from the origin (@... ce) = (0... . 0), is always finite; this being s0, we
have the further condition that the prepotential V must for indefinitely large values of
all or any of the coordinates (2. . .c, e) reduce itself to the form

(ſedz...4)=(@... +&+&Y*7,

The assumptions upon which this last condition is obtained are perhaps UNNeCcesSAry ;
instead of the condition in the foregoing form we, in fact, use only the condition that
the prepotential vanishes for a point at infinity, that is when all or any one or more
of the coordinates ( . . . c, 6) are or is infinite. Again, as we have seen, the prepotential V must satisfy the prepotential equation

a? an e #d
(@ © +eTeTH931 2)V=0. These conditions satisfied, to the given prepotential V, there corresponds on the plane
w=0, a distribution given by the foregoing formula, and which will be a distribution
over a finite portion of the plane, as already mentioned.

30.