For the sake of comparison
it may be remarked that the horizontal and yertical components of the earth's magnetic
force at Glasgow are about *16 and -43 ; and in first experimenting with the apparatus now
described, I made sure that the magnetization of the wire by the vertical component of the
earth's magnetizing force was not essentially concerned in any of the results, by reversing
the magnetizing current, then applying and removing weights repeatedly, then stopping
the current, and again putting weights on and off repeatedly. The deflections of the
galvanometer observed in this succession of operations were not sensibly different from
those observed previously, but in reverse directions; that is to say, the results still
fulfilled the preceding statements. The fact that the effect of pull to diminish magnetization and of taking off pull to
increase it, was found to produce a greater difference when the magnetization was solely
residual than when it was sustained by the continued influence of the magnetizing force,
led me to expect that the effect of making and breaking the circuit of the magnetizing
coil and battery should be greater for the wire when pulled than when unpulled,
Subsequent experiments proved this to be the case.

* Since the communication of this paper to the Royal Society I have found in Wirprataxx's © Galvanismus,”
$499, that similar results had been obtained by Marrevccr (* Annales de Chimie et de Physique,' 1858), and by
ViiLant (Po6s,  Annalen,” 1868), —[Added May 1876]


ELECTRODYNAMIC QUALITIES OF METALS. 697

184. But, lastly, T found between the quasi-elastic part of the magnetization pro-
duced by alternately applying and removing the magnetizing force, and the initial
reverse magnetization produced by the application of a reyerse magnetizing force, a
very surprising difference. The former, as stated above, is greater when the wire is
pulled than when unpulled: the latter is less in the wire when pulled than when free
from pull, but not by s0 great a difference; and the whole magnetizational effect of
reversing the current suddenly must therefore be greater when the wire is pulled than
when unpulled, and is found to be 80.

185, The following series of experiments, I. ... .