Uypotheses of HuMBoLDT, ARaG0, LESz, and others. Such is « 8summary of the results obtained between the years 1749 and 1868, From
time to time they had been commented on by some of the most eminent physicists of
the time, and the cause of the low temperatures prevailing in the depths of tropical seas
discussed. HuMBoLDT, 80 far back as 1812, and again in his subsequent works*, contended that
«the existence of those cold layers in low latitudes proves the existence of an under-
current flowing from the poles to the equator.” In support of this hypothesis, he showed
how it explained the fact, first noticed by FRANKLIN and WILLIAMS f, that the water on
shoals in the Atlantic was many degrees lower than that surrounding them, from the cir-

Qeumstance that the deeper cold water, flowing and rising over them, displaced the warmer
Qgurface-waters $. These observations were afterwards confirmed by Du PegmT-Tnovans,
SZ VAILLANT, and others. He was further of opinion that *in the narrower seas, as well
Sas in the tropical seas which cover the cold waters from Arctic regions, all the mass of
Swater is in a state of movement.”
E HUMBoLDT® also contested the conclusions of those who considered that the ocean is
talter under the equator than at a distance from it, and showed that while in lat. 0? to
S14* the specific gravity was 10272, it was 1:0282 in lat. 15 to 18?, and 1-0278 in lat.
30” to 40% Nor did he fail to note ( that the equatorial zone is not the hottest water
Some ; but that two hotter zones lie a few degrees N. and S. of it.
3 HvaporDr subsequently || thus summarized the question as it then stood :—
Z « As fresh and salt water do not attain the maximum of their density at the same
Slegree of temperature, and as the saltness of the sea lowers the thermometrical degree
Zcorresponding to this point, we can understand how the water drawn from great depths
Sof the sea during the voyages of Korzepus and Du Pemm-Tnovars could have been
Sfound to have only the temperature of 37? and 365, This icy temperature of sea-water,
Sywhich is likewise manifested at the depths of tropical seas, first led to a study of the
Ylower polar currents, which move from both poles towards the equator.