Unfortunately in this case his conclusions were accepted without
examination by distinguished writers in two popular works on Physical Geography, and
obtained a currency for which it is difficult to acconnth. Although Sir Jaxts Ross's
experiments were in themselves valuable, they required both detail and corroboration,
and his conclusions were evidently based on an as8umption for which there was no
warrant. And yet, while his important and positive facts as to the persistence of life to
great depths failed to receive the attention they deserved, his physical fallacies were
received almost without a question. As with his predecessor, D'URviLLe, Sir Jags
found in his more numerous and deeper observations that the unprotected thermometer
commonly marked a temperature of and about 39* to 40*; and taking the maximum
density of fresh water to be 39*:5, he applied the same reasoning to the open seas as had
already been applied to freshwater lakes, and assumed, exactly as D'URyILLE had done,
that a uniform temperature of about 39*5 prevailed at depths varying with the latitude,
and that a belt of water of that temperature, extending from the surface downwards,
encircles the globe between the 50th and 60th degrees of south latitude, or, as he more
definitely fixes it, in a mean latitude of about 56* 26' S. ||

* Voyage, p. 62. + 1bid. p. 99.

4 * Il faut done esperer que le famenx nombre +44 si ctonrdiment; emprunt6 aux obseryations & la surface
et au fond des lacs {eau douce de Suisse cexsera de paraitre dans les dissertations ea profess0, comme la limite
au-dessous de laquelle la temperature du fond des mers ne saurait jamais descendre,” (Voyage de *La Venus,”
Physique, vol. v. p. 22; and © CEuyres Completes,” vol. ix. p. 254.)

$ I may, however, remark that their mention of the s8uhject is incidental, and confined merely to giving the

facts on Ross's authority.
|| * It is therefore eyident that about this parallel of latitude there is a belt or circle round the earth,


*

MR, J. PRESTWICH ON SUBMARINE TEMPERATURES, 615

Wirkzs, who also explored the Antarctic seas in 1838-42, took the same view, and
for the same reasons as D'URvILLE, WAUCHOPE, and Ross, of the existence of a deep-sea
and of a belt of water of the uniform temperature of 395 F,

Commenting on the general results of this great American expedition, Btor discusses*
the question of deep-sea temperatures.