CROOKES ON REPULSION RESULTING FROM RADIATION. 327

dark or slightly luminous heat-rays—the fingers, a hot glass rod, hot copper, or a candle-
flame being used as the source of radiation. I quote the following sentencefrom par. 94:;—
« Although I most frequently speak of repulsion by heat, and in illustrating any of the
results obtained I generally use either the fingers or the flame of a spirit-lamp as a
convenient source of radiation, it must be clearly understood that these results are not
confined to the heating-rays of the spectrum, but that any ray, from the ultra-red to the
ultra-violet, will produce repulsion in a vacuum. I have already mentioned this fact in
my first paper (58, 68).”

A few experiments were tried on the effect of radiation on surfaces the reflecting or
radiating power of which was modified by coating them with various substances. In
par. 102, after describing a torsion-apparatus for quantitative work, I mention that the
surfaces of pith, as thin as possible, may be coated with lampblack or silver, or may retain
their natural s8urface ; in par. 108 I state, as the result of a long series of experiments with
this apparatus, that © the conducting-power for heat and condition of the surface (whether
coated with lampblack or consisting of polished metal) of the body on which radiation
falls materially influence the movements.” In par. 112 I again refer to the effect caused
by the physical condition of the surface ; and further on, in par. 116, I say, © A series of
experiments have been tried with a view to ascertain what influence the state of the surface
of the substance submitted to radiation has on the amount or the direction of its move-
ment.” After describing one in which white ivory was compared with lampblacked
ivory without giving very striking results, I continue :—* These experiments were, how-
ever, tried in 1873, when I had not sncceeded in getting any thing like the delicacy I
now obtain in the apparatus; and I propose to repeat them under varied conditions,
before employing the results to found any arguments upon.”

The present paper contains an account of these experiments on the action of radiation
on bodies the surfaces of which have their radiating and absorbing powers modified by
various coatings. The surfaces examined in this way are of the most diverse character,
the incident rays have been selected of all refrangibilities from ultra-red to ultra-violet,
the radiation has been sifted through liquid, solid, and gaseous screens, the degree
of exhaustion and the sensitiveness of the apparatus have been brought to a state
of perfection undreamed of in my earlier experiments, and the results, I venture to state,
are of a correspondingly striking character.

127.