Helmo's fires: Among the reſt, there was -
< one upon the top of the vane of the main-maſt,,
« which was more than a foot and half in height.
« I ordered'one of the ſailors to take it down: When
« this man was on the top, he heard this fire ; its
«+ noiſe reſembled that of fired wet gunpowder : -I'
« ordered.


[ 214 ]

« oxdered him to lower the vane, and come down;
« but ſcarce had he taken it from its place, but
« the fire left it, and fixed itſelf upon the top of
« the mainmaſt, from which it was impoſſible to
« remove it; and continued there a conſiderable time,
« until it went out by little and little, &c.”

If all the authors, who have taken notice of St. Helmo's fire, had ſpoken of it as this juſt quoted,
philoſophers might have reproached themſelves for
its having been ſo long before they had a juſt idea
thereof, and for their not having ſhewn the principle
upon which it depended. But how few hiſtorians
are there, who could have related this fact with cir-
cumſtances ſo, proper to put us in a right train, as
thoſe juſt mentioned ?

« And here I cannot but obſerve, as I am con-
« vinced, that the matter of thunder and that of
&« of elericity are one and the fame, how vaſt an
« idea muſt the attending to the before-mentioned
« paſſage excite in the mind of perſons, accuſtomed
« to the phznomena of eledricity ? How. immenſe
« a quantity of it muſt they conceive to haye been at
« that time in the atmoſphere ſurrounding the ſhip,
<« and within'the verge of its ation, to furniſh 'morg
« than thirty St, Helmo's fires ; the ſame, in fat,
« which we ſee at the ends of our condudtors in
« eledrifing, one of which was more than a foot and
« half in height? At.this time, and under theſe cir;
« camſtances, the maſts, yards, 'and eyery part of
« the ſhip, 1 conſider as condudtors of electricity,
« between 'the, at'this time eledriſed, atmoſphere,
« and the ſea: and tho', being of a vegetable nature,
© and, if dry, even of the worſt kind for this pur-

: «« poſe,


[ 215 ]

pole, they conducted eledricity much leſs perfectly
than metal under the like circumſtances would
have done, I doubt not, but that they were greatly
inſtrumental in averting the danger, with which
the ſhip was threatened.
<« Upon theſe confiderations, I do not fcruple to
recommend, as Mr, Franklin has done, communi-
cations of metal between the ſpindles and iron-
work at the tops of the maſts of ſhips, and the ſea;
or, which will anſwer the fame purpoſe, the bilge
water in the well.