ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER, 125

to correct HorTrox's asumption ; and the question of the pressure exercised and work
performed by gunpowder in the bore of a gun has been examined both by Buxsex and
ScniscnKove, and by the Count de SAINT-ROBERT *,

De Sarr-Roperr, like HruTTox, supposed that the whole of the products of explosion
were, on ignition, in a gaseous state, and that hence the relation between the pressure
and the yolume of the products followed from the well-known law connecting the tension
and volume of permanent gases. BuNnsEx and SCHISCHKOFP, on the other hand, who, like ourselyes, have arrived at the
conclusion that at the moment of explosion a large part of the products is not in the

SF gaseous state, have deduced the total work which gunpowder is capable of performing,
a on the assumption that the work on the projectile is effected by the expansion of the
S permanent gases alone, without addition or subtraction of heat, and that, in fact, the
non-gaseous products play no part in the expansion. Sufficient data were not at the command of either of the authorities we have named
© to enable them adequately to test their theories; and we propose in the first place, with
= the data at our disposal, to compare their hypotheses with actual facts, by computing
S the tensions for different volumes and comparing the calculated results both with the
= tensions in a close vessel and with those derived from actual experiments in the bores

= of guns.

= As8uming, in the first place, with De Sa1xT-Ropert, that the whole of the products
Z are in the gaseous form, —

E Let p be the value of the elastic pressure of the permanent gases generated by the

S combustion of the powder corresponding to any volume », and let p,, v, be the known
& initial yalues of p and v. Let also C, be the specific heat of these gases at constant
GS pressure, and C, be the specific heat at constant volume. 'Then, from the well-known
= relation existing between p and v, where a permanent gas is permitted to expand in a
& vexel impervious to heat, we have

Cc,
ve &
£ p=p(2)*s II Ser, ., 15)

g and this equation, upon De SaixT-Roprrrt's hypothesis, expresses the relation between

© the tension of the gases and the yolume occupied by them in the bore of a gun. Taking p, from Table VIII. at 41-477 tons per square inch, and assuming at unity

the space #, occupied by the charge when at a gravimetric density of 1, taking, further,

c
the value of o=lrA as computed by De SaixT-RoBerr, equation (15) becomes

p=11-477 (7) WR As 4444s 12 (16)

If we now take Buxsex and Scniscnkovy's view, that a portion only of the products
is in the form of permanent gases, and that they expand without addition or subtraction
* Trait6 de Thermodynamique, p. 154.


3

of heat, we are able, from equation (15), to deduce the law connecting the tension and
the pregsure.