J. ROMANES ON THE LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM OF MEDUSZE. 731

Medusz, the slightest want of ganglionic coordination exhibited by any of the specimens. Moreover, that the ganglionic coordination is in this case wonderfully far adyanced, is
proved by the fact of members of this genus being able to steer themselyes while
following a light, as described in my last paper *. In the discophorous species of naked-eyed Medusz, however, perfectly coordinated
action is by no means of such inyariable occurrence as it is in Sersia ; for although in
perfectly healthy and vigorous specimens systole and diastole occur at the same instant
over the whole nectocalyx, this harmoniously acting mechanism is very liable to be
thrown out of gear; 80 that when the animals are suffering in the least degree from
any injurious conditions—often too slight and obscure to admit of discernment—the *
swimming movements are n0 longer synchronous oyer the whole nectocalyx ; but now
one part is in systole while another part is in diastole, and now several parts may be in
diastole while other parts are in systole. And, as in these animals very slight causes
scem $ufficient thus to impair the ganglionic coordination, it generally happens that in
a belljar containing a number of specimens belonging to different species, numerous
examples of more or less irregular swimming movements are observableF.

(5) Taking, then, the case of Sarsia first, from my previous observations on the phy-
siological harmony subsisting between the tentacles, I was Jed to expect that the coor-
dination of the locomotor ganglia was probably effected by means of the same tissue-
tracts through which the intertentacular harmony was effected, viz. those situated in
the margin of the bell, Accordingly, I introduced four short radial cuts, one midway
between each pair of adjacent marginal bodies. 'The coordination, however, was not

* Removing the polypite does not interfere with this steering action ; but if any considerable portion of the
margin is excised, the animal seems no longer able to find the beam of light, eyen though one or more of the
marginal bodies are left in situ.

+ I think it is worth while to describe a peculiar irregularity of a very definite kind which is occasionally
obseryable in Tiaropsis diademata, IT have ouly noticed it in the case of tolerably vigorous specimens.