ROMANES ON THE LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM OF MEDUSE. 733

before any of their number is again able to originate a discharge will be the same as if
their physiological harmony had never been destroyed®*,

Tn view of these considerations I tried the following experiments. Instead of
beginning the radial cuts from the margin, I began them from the apex of the cone;
and I found that however many of snch cuts IT introduced, and: however far down the
cone I carried them, 80 long as I did not actually sever the margin so long did all the
divisions of the bell continne to contract simultaneouslyF. This fact therefore proves
at least this much, that whether or not in the previous experiments true ganglionic
coordination was effected through the upper zones of the bell, the margin of the bell is

= alone sufficient to maintain such coordination. I 'The next experiment I tried was to make four short radial incisions in the margin as
E before described, and then to continue one of these incisions the whole way up the bell.
- By careful observation I could now perceive that all the marginal ganglia did not

discharge simultaneously; for when those situated nearest to the long radial cut
L happened to take the initiative, the resulting contractile wave, having double the
= distance to travel which it would haye had if the long radial cut had been absent
= (or, as in the experiment described at the beginning of this subsection (5), if this radial
= cut had only been of the same length as the other three radial cuts), could now be fol-
© lowed by the eye in its very rapid course round the bell, Now the fact that in this
= form of section I was able to detect the passage of a wave, proves that the three short
2 radial sections had destroyed the coordinated action of the marginal ganglia.

a From these experiments, then, I conclude that in this genus ganglionic coordination,
> in the strict sense of the term, is effected exclusively by means of the marginal nerves.
= And as these experiments on Sarsi« are exceedingly difficult to conduct, owing to the
Q yery rapid passage of contractile waves, it is satisfactory to find that this conclusion is

<= further supported by the analogy which the other species of a naked-eyed Medusa
5 afford, and to the consideration of which we shall now proceed.

= (c) The effects of four short radial incisions through the margin of any species of
V Tiaropsis, Thaumantias, Staurophora, &c, are usually very conspicuons. Kach of the
£ quadrants included between two adjacent incisions shows a strong tendency to asxume
5 an independent action of its own.