It is important,
also, to notice that at this stage the effect of marginal stimulation is very often that of
producing a general locomotor contraction, and sometimes a series of two or three such. During recovery in normal sea-water all these phases recur in reverse order.
$4. Character of the Contractile Tissves of Aurelia aurita. (A) Contractional Conti-
muity.—(a) This year I have been able to collect some additional facts relating to this
subject; and of these facts the first that I shall deal with is an important one, namely,
that exploration of the contractile tissxues by graduated stimuli affords direct proof
LI that these tissues are in & high degree functionally heterogenous, That is to say, if
@ the swimming-bell of Aurelia be paralyzed by remoyal of its lithocysts, and if its irri-
5 table surface be then explored by induction-sRhocks of graduated intensity, differences
> in the excitability of different parts may thus be rendered clearly apparent. These
differences are observable in all degrees, from being scarcely perceptible to being
SL 80 pronounced that no strength of stimulation will cause any, except a very local,
= response. Moreover it is of importance for us to note that if the stimuli be adminis-
i= tered by means of needle-point electrodes, it may almost always be observed that an
= area of low excitability does not graduate into an adjacent area of high excitability by
© Sunecexsive stages, but that the one area is separated from the other by an exceedingly
S well-defined line of demarcation. :
2 (5) Having observed these lines of demarcation between areas of different degrees of
excitability to be 80 well defined, I was led to *try cutting a spiral strip until the
> contractile waves became blocked, and then exploring the line of blockage by stimulus.
= In all cases I found that if I stimulated a fraction of a millim. on the spiral strip
& <ide of this line, the spiral strip responded, while the uncut portion of the bell
<= remained passive; and, conversely, that if I stimulated the other side of this line,
5 the uncut portion of the bell responded, while the spiral strip remained passive, To
make the fact in question quite clear T may refer to'fig. 9, which represents a portion

& Fig. 9.

of a broad strip wherein the contractile waves became blocked at the curved line

ab.