In other words, the properties of the
medium must not be sensibly different at points within a distance of each other, com-
parable with the ©* mean free path” of a molecule. —Note added June, 1879.]


GASES ARISING FROM INEQUALITIES OF TEMPERATURE. 249

APPENDIX.
(Added May, 1879.)

In the paper as sent in to the Royal Society, I made no attempt to express the
conditions which must be satisfied by a gas in contact with a solid body, for I thought
© ib very unlikely that any equations I could write down would be a satisfactory repre-

gentation of the actual conditions, especially as it is almost certain that the sbratum of

gas nearest to a 8olid body is in a very different condition from the rest of the gas. One of the referees, however, pointed out that it was desirable to make the attempt,

-and indicated several hypothetical forms of surfaces which might be tried. I have
Stherefore added the following calculations, which are carried to the same degree of
approximation as those for the interior of the gas.
= It will be seen that the equations I have arrived at express both the fact that

the gas may slide over the surtace with a finite velocity, the previous investigations
© of which have been already mentioned;* and the fact that this velocity and the corres-
Zponding tangential stress are affected by inequalities of temperature at the surface of
Sthe solid, which give rise to a force tending to make the gas slide along the surface
from colder to hotter places.
2 This phenomenon, to which Professor OsBorxE ReyNoLDs has given the name of
SThermal Transpiration, was discovered entirely by him. He was the first to point out
'Z that a phenomenon of this kind was a necessary consequence of the Kinetic Theory of
= Gases, and he also snbjected certain actual phenomena, of a somewhat different kind,
> indeed, to measurement, and reduced his measurements by a method admirably
S adapted to throw light on the relations between gases and 8olids.
= It was not till after T had read Professor REeyNoLDs' paper that I began to recon-
& 8ider the surface conditions of a gas, so that what I have done is simply to extend to
& the surface phenomena the method which I think mos suitable for treating the interior
65 of the gas. I think that this method is, in some respects, better than that adopted
S by Professor REYSOLDs, while I admit that his method is sufficient to establish the
S existence of the phenomena, though not to afford an estimate of their amount.