p. 162.
S'DL$


690 PROFESSOR PRESTWICH ON THE ORIGIN

of a body of ice in the present sea-channel, renders it almost certain that the land at
this period extended much further westward into the Atlantic area. *

Mr. R. A. C. Gopwixn-AvsTExt &o far back as 1849 came to the conclusion, on evidence
of an entirely different order, that the bed of the English Channel © was in the condition
of dry land previous to its occupation by the waters of the pleistocene sea, or during
the period of the pliocene (crag) accumulations of the German basin, and that, together
with a large area beyond, it served to connect the British Islands with France on the
south, and Ireland on the west, into a tract which had a far greater amount of eleya-
tion than any portion of ib has ab present ” (p. 94); and further, he. remarks that
© the period of the terrestrial conditions of greatest cold over the area of Great
Britain would therefore be, when it was part of an area, of much greater extent, and
at a much greater elevation ” (p. 95). He shows that there is nob only evidence of a marginal line of coast at depths
of from 50 to 60 fathoms, but there is also on the western slope of the Little Sole
Bank, where the sea bed falls rapidly from the 100 to the 200 fathom lines, evidence
of a «till greater former elevation, in the fact that on these slopes large perfect, thongh
decayed, shells of littoral species, such as Littorina littorea, Patella vulgata, &c., and
$hell-8and are found, whence he infers © that we have at this place the indication of a
coast-line of no very distant geological period, buried under a great depth of water,
and removed to a great distance from the nearest present coast-line.” On the west coast of Scotland the excessive glaciation of all the sea lochs and
islands point to the westward flow of the great ice-sheet, descending from the water-
shed of the Ben Nevis and other mountain ranges of the Highlands, over ground then
above the present sea-level, to a more distant sea ; and both Professor A. Gammazt
and Dr. J. Gerx1x$ have argued from several considerations, and especially from the
contours of the sea-bed between the Scottish, North of England, and Irish coasts, that
there is reason to infer the surface even far © under low-water mark has been dressed
and moulded by the ice-sheet ;” that the bed of the Irish Channel was then above the
ea; and that the country stood considerably higher above the sea than now—a height
estimated by the latter at not less than 600 feet. I am, however, disposed to think with Mr. Gopwrx-Avsmes that the old coast-line
may more probably have been nearer to the 200 fathom contour, as, so far, the levels
are regular and continuous ; but beyond that line the soundings suddenly become
very deep and irregular.