The equations of steady motion being
reduced to a general equation, expressing the relation between the rate of transpira-
tion, the variation of pressure, the variation of temperature, the condition of the gas,
and the dimensions of the tube. In Section X. is shown the manner in which were revealed the probable existence
(1) of the phenomena of thermal transpiration, and (2) the law of correspondence
between all the results of transpiration with different plates, 80 long as the density of
the gas is inversely proportional $0 the lateral linear dimensions of the passage through


PROPERTIES OF MATTER IN THE GASEOUS STATE, 841

the plate; from which revelations originated the idea of making experiments on
thermal transpiration and transpiration under pressure.

(3.) The method of adapting the equations of steady motion to the case of impulsion
is given in Section XT. Tn Section XII. is shown how it first became apparent that the extremely low
pressures at which alone the phenomena of the radiometer had been obtained were con-
8equent on the comparatively large size of the vanes, and that by diminishing the size
of the vanes similar results might be obtained at higher pressures ; whence followed
the idea of using the fibre of silk and the spider-line in place of the plate-vanes.

(4.) In Section XIL it is also shown that while the phenomena of the radiometer
result, from the communication of heat from a surface to a gas, as explained in my
former paper, these phenomena, also depend on the divergence of the lines of flow ;
whence ib is shown that all the peculiar facts that have been observed may be
explained.

(5.) In Section X. it is also shown that the phenomena of transpiration, resulting
from a variation in the molecular constitution of the gas (investigated by GRAHAM), are
also to be explained by the equation of transpiration.

(6.) Section IT. (Part I.) contains a description of the experiments undertaken to
verify the revelations of Section X. respecting thermal transpiration ; which experi-
ments establish not only the existence of the phenomena, but also an exact correspon-
dence between the rexults for different plates at corresponding densities of the gas.

(7.) Section III. contains a description of the experiments on transpiration under
pres84re, undertaken to verify the revelations of Section X. with respect to the
correspondence between the results to be-obtained with plates of different coarseness
ab certain corresponding densities of the gas; which experiments proved, not only
the existence of this correspondence, but also that the ratio of the corresponding den-
sities in these experiments are the same as the ratio of the corresponding densities
with the same plates for thermal transpiration—a fact which proves that the ratio
depends on the relative coarseness of the plates.

(8.) Section IV. contains a description of the experiments with the fibre of silk and
with the spider-line, undertaken to verify the revelations of Section XIT. ; from which
experiments it appears that, with these small surfaces, phenomena, of impulsion similar
to those of the radiometer occur at pressures but little less than that of the atmo-
sphere.

126. As regards transpiration and impulsion, the investigation appears to be com-
plete. Most, if not all, the phenomena previously known have been shown to be such
as mus result from the tangential and normal stresses consequent on a varying
condition of molecularly constituted gas ; while the previously unsuspected phenomena,
to which it was found that a variation in the condition of a molecular gas must give
rise, have, on trial, been found to exist.