It will afterwards be seen that the capacity for performing work of the various
descriptions of powder is also not very different, and this similarity of result is the
more remarkable when it is remembered that with, at all events, three of the powders,
there were striking differences both in their composition and in the decomposition
that they experienced, and when, in consequence, material yariations both in pressures
at different densities and in potential energy might have been expected. But returning to the great difference in heat evolved, for example, by the Spanish
and mining powders, we think it is difficult to resist the conclusion that the small
number of units of heat evolved by the latter is in great measure due to the quantity
of heat that has been absorbed in placing the very much larger proportion of the
products of combustion in the form of permanent gases. This suggestion would, we
think, also fully explain the fact alluded to in our first memoir,* and to which we
had been led purely by experiment, namely, © that the variations observed by us in
the decomposition of gunpowder do not, even when very considerable, materially
affect either its tension or capacity for performing work.”

The above facts and remarks would also show that a comparison between different
gunpowders, or a comparison between gunpowder and other explosive agents cannot,
as has been proposed,+ be determined by a simple measurement of the corresponding
units of heat they evolve. Did such a law hold, the Spanish powder should have more than 50 per cent.
advantage over the mining powder, but as a matter of fact, although not very widely
different, the mining powder had the advantage both in respect to the tension observed
in a close vessel and to the energy developed in the bore of a gun. As regards the actual temperature of explosion, we have little doubt, from the
results of the further experiments detailed in this paper, that the temperature named
in our first memoir, viz., 2200* C., is not far removed from the truth for the principal
powders with which we were then experimenting.

* Loc. cit., p. 88.
+ De TrowexEc, © Comptes Rendus,' tom.