However fagh a wh
rotating, ib will appear to be at res6 when illuminated by an electric gpark. ;

* It will of course be understood that under the term * terminal” are included all sources of el
discharge, whether effective terminals or quasi-terminals. ON THE SENSITIVE STATE OF VACUUM DISCHARGES. 629

gh the interval between two of the discharges considered in this paper may
exceed a thousandth part of a second, ib is not surprising that it should be
at of all proportion greater than the time actually occupied by the discharge. Ib is
it this fact that we owe the isolation of the individual discharges of the sensitive
rge, which has formed the basis of the present investigation : an isolation which
rs the examination of this type of discharge equivalent, as we have already men-
, to the examination of the electric spark itself.*
We need not examine the magnitude of the period occupied by the whole discharge.
would be obtained by adding together a proper selection of the other small time-
tities with which we are dealing, and which are in reality the component parts of
Shich the whole discharge is made up. And, further, it would possess no scientific
2 Slue 80 far as the investigation of the mechanism of the discharge is concerned, for it
the relative duration of the various processes which go to constibute the complete
gochargs that it is important for us to learn.
© We shall next consider the magnitudes of the periods occupied by the positive and
tive electricities in passing along the tube, by which we mean the interval that
-Sapses from the instant of their emission from one terminal to the instant of their arrival
a point 8ituated in the neighbourhood of the opposite terminal. And we shall first
"Sow that the time occupied by the passage of either electricity along the tube is of a
Seater order of magnitude than the time required for it to pass along an equal length,
'wire,
= The experiments given in Section XIII. of our former paper suffice to demonstrate
Sis proposition.