In conclusion, it is obvious that it was of potass chiefly, of phosphoric acid alsq
notably, but of mos of the mineral constituents more ar less, that the available supply
had become 80 deficient under the continuous application of the ammonia-salts. Tt
has already been illustrated how. ineffective was a supply of phosphorie acid (super-


EXPERIMENTS ON THE MIXED HERBAGE OF PERMANENT MEADOW. 357

phosphate of lime) when used alone, and how comparatively little was its effect when
used in conjunction with ammonia-salts, but without potass ; and we have here again
strikingly brought out the influence of a liberal ayailable snpply of potass within the
80il, both upon the quantity and the quality of the produce. Lastly, such evidence
as is at command on the point does not favour the supposition that any considerable
proportion of the nitrogen of the ammonia-salts applied during the 13 years, and not
recovered in the crops during the period of the application, remained in an available
condition in the 801il, and was reclaimed in the succeeding seven years under the influ-
ences of the mixed mineral manure.
= In connexion with these results showing the effects of a pretty complete mineral
S manure, used after the continuous application of an excess of ammonia-salts alone for
£ a number of years, brief reference may be made to a somewhat parallel experiment.
= When considering the results obtained on plot 15, manured for 18 years in 8ucces-
S gion with 550 lbs. per acre of nitrate of soda alone, containing 82 lbs. of nitrogen, or
S approximately the same amount as the 400 Ibs. of ammonia-salts employed on plots
= $5 and 6, attention was called to the fact that the nitrate alone gave considerably more
& produce, containing more nitrogen, much more mineral matter, and falling off much
S less in the later years, than where the ammonia-salts were applied. The herbage, too,
2 was both more mixed and better developed under the influence of the nitrate. It
> was pointed oub that these better results were doubtless in great part due to the more
-3 rapid, wider, and deeper, distribution of the nitrogen of the nitrate, than that of the
ammonia-salts.