The average temperature of April had, however, frequently, and
that of May and June occasionally, been exceeded in the corresponding months of
other years ; but the average temperature of the three months together had only once
been exceeded in any corresponding three months in 98 years—namely, in 1865—
when, though April was hotter, May and June were not quite 80 hot; and the average
temperature of the whole period from the middle of January to the end of June was
only exceeded in 1822. Concurrently with this long-continued warm weather, there
was a considerable excess of rain in January, with in the early part of the month
several gales of wind ; there was scarcely the average fall in February, a slight excess


EXPERIMENTS ON THE MIXED HERBAGE OF PERMANENT MEADOW. 403

in March and April, a great deficiency in May, and a still greater in[June, The degree
of humidity of the atmosphere was also below the average in each of the six months,
| January to June inclusive.
[ With the excess of rain in January, the fair amounts in February, March, and April,
| and the unusual warmth of those early spring months, vegetation became active very
early, and was very forward before the dry, and very hot, weather of May and June et
in. The result was, as Table XXXI. shows, that with liberal manuring there were very
heavy crops, which fully matured, and were cut very early ; whilst, without manure, or
with only mineral manure, the herbage suffered greatly from the heat and drought of
< May and June.
©S Thus, the season second in order of productiveness was characterised by unusually
© high temperatures throughont the whole period of growth, with a sufficiency of rain up
S to the end of April—conditions which brought the herbage very early forward, and
S rendered it comparatively independent of the extreme heat and drought of the months
of May and June, which would otherwise have been fatal at that period, and which
2 were, in fact, very injurious where the conditions of manuring had not been such as to
& bring the vegetation sufficiently forward previously. We have, ib may be observed, the curious result of the lowest produce of the 20
= years in the year of 1870, which was the one of the most extreme heat and drought of
'B. the $eries, and of the highest produce but one in 1868, which was only second to 1870
2 in heat and drought of the growing period. But there was this difference between
'2 the two seasons: the winter and early spring of 1870 had been very adverse, the
S herbage was in a very backward state, and the heat and drought commenced a month
'S earlier; whereas, from the commencement of 1868, for a period of nearly four months,
'& the conditions both as to heat and moisture were favourable, and it was not until May
= —that is, a month later than in 1870, and when with high manuring the herbage was
S already very luxuriant—that the heat and drought succeeded, then serving to elaborate
» and mature, rather than materially to check, vegetation in such condition of luxuriance
'V and forwardness.
= Let us now call attention to the characters of the season of 1874, the second of the
5 20 in order of unproductiveness.