The condition which we thought necessary to fulfil throughout our experiments was
the coextension of the points of excitation and of polarisation ; our reason being that
owing to current diffusion and consequent establisghment of opposite electrodes in the
nerve in the immediate neighbourhood of the electrode, the electrotonic state is vari-
able in kind, degree, and distribution. This condition is fulfilled by conjoining the
testing and polarising currents in one circuit, and by applying one electrode only to
the nerve.} The other method, by which the two circuits are separate, gave in our
hands discordant results, similar to those of previous observers, who found that the

o

* We did not use unpolarisable electrodes in these experiments, but plates of metal covered with
chamois leather.

+ This method was first nsed by Ecknarvr (Beitrige zur Anat. und Phys., Giessen, 1858-4, p. 28),
afterwards by PrLiiGer (*Blektrotonus,' p. 394) and by yon BuzoLD (*Erregung der Nerven und Muskeln,”
P- 212); on Man it has been employed by BrckxssR (7oc. cit.) and by Ruan (toe. cit.). OF THE GALVANIC CURRENT ON THE MOTOR NERVES OF MAN, 963

| effects varied in kind and degree.* Heramorrz' hypothesis undoubtedly accounts
for 8ome of these apparent contradictions, which may be due to the fact that when a
proximal region, or series of points, in a nerve is submitted to the polar action of a
given electrode, there exists a distal region, or series of points, in that nerve which is
submitted to polar influence of the opposite 8ign to that of the electrode (using the
| terms © distal ” and © proximal” with reference to the electrode as centre). But if this hypothesis is true in the case of the polarising current, it must hold
| als for the testing current, whether galvanic or induced, since the laws of diffusion
are the same for both, and one cannot ensure the coincidence of excitation and polari-
S «ation by separate electrodes. Another contingency capable of vitiating the results
AQ obtained by this same method is, that derived currents may be established through
S the testing electrode of sufficient strength to alter the irritability of the nerve.