The following general points will enable you to judge of the progress which I
had made in the enquiry.

« 1, In almost all crystals with two axes there is a deviation from the tints of
Newros's scale.

«© 2, This deviation is greater in-5ome crystals than in others, being a maximum-in
acetate of lead and tartrate of potash and soda.

« 3. That all these crystals may be divided into two classes, viz. those which
have the red ends of the rings/inwards-and the blue ends outwards, and those which
have the red ends outwards and the blue ends inwards,

« 4+ That in all crystals with two axes, the doubly refracting force of one axis in
general acts differently upon the differently coloured rays from the doubly refracting
force of the s2cond axis.

« 5, That as the polarising force is always proportional to the force of double
refraction, the polarising force of one axis will act differently on the differently
coloured rays from the polarising force of the other axis.

ob OE , a . 5

« 7, The consequence of this is, that there will be idle Re axes, or © dif-
ferent points of compensation for the differently coloured rays.

<«« 8, All these effects may be calculated with the utmost accuracy, if the ratio of
the dispersive powers of the two extraordinary refractive forces is given, or vice versd,
the dispersive powers may be obtained from the angles of the resultant axes for the
red and violet rays of the spectrum,

« g. I have found crystals in” which theze phenomena are decidedly connected
with the rotatory phenomena; and from this highly important fact I am led to
conclude, that borh have the same origin, and that all the rotatory phenomena are,
as T have $tated in my paper, the result of the uncompensated tints of two axes,
equal for the mean ray, but unequal for all the rest. (Here follows an illustration
by a diapbragm.)

« 10, The division into two classes in iii. as founded merely on observation, is
converted into another division into two classes, viz. 1. That in which the doubly
refracting force of the principal axis acts more powerfully on the blue rays than the
other axis does ; and 2, That in which it acts less powerfully. The first class com-
prehends those crystals in which the blue ends are inwards, and the second those in
which the red ends are inwards, or nearer the principal axis,”

In a subsequent letter (Oct. 4), he adds,

« The virtual poles, which you mention, I discovered in the year 1815, and I have
two accounts of them in my Journal, the one signed on the 24th January, 1816, and


96 Mr.