When the heating is removed and the auricles
begin to beat less frequently,”the ventricle again alters its rate 80 as to beat synchron-
ously with the auricles with the same suddenness as in its original alteration of
rhythm. $0, too, an increase in the tightness of the clamp makes the ventricle beat


THE FROG, AND ON THE ACTION OF THE VAGUS NERVE. 1001

synchrononsly with every second beat of the auricles, and upon loosening the clamp
the original sequence of beats returns. Finally, in ome cases heating the auricles and sinus causes the ventricle more or
£ less snddenly to cease beating and remain quiescent in the relaxed condition, although,
as will be sghown hereafter, we have reason to think that the motor impulzes are still
passing to the musele ; similarly, when the clamp in the auriculo-ventricular groove is
tightened sufficiently the ventricle remains quiescent, even although there is proof that
the impulses have not been entirely prevented from reaching the musele (see Plate 69,

L figs. 17 and 18). Q Again, it is to be noticed that when the ventricle is made to beat s8ynchronously
a

NY with every second beat of the auricles, either by heating the anricles and sinus as in
5 Plate 67, fig. 1), or by tightening the clamp as in Plate 67, fig. 3, the slower contrac-
X tions are always larger than the previous ones, and this greater force of the contraction
5 is only partly, at all events, due to the fact that with a slower beat the muscle con-
> tracts from a position of greater relaxation than with a quicker one. The figures, it is
S true, show that the lever does fall lower between the contractions when the ventricle
2 is beating slowly than when it is beating quickly—a fact which proves that, with the
Z ordinary rate of beating, the ventricle has not time to relax to its full extent before
"3 another contraction commences—but they also show that the lever rises above the level
of the previous quicker beats ; in other words, the slower beats are accompanied by an
'Z increase in the force of the contraction as well as by an increase in the relaxation of
2 the muscle between the beats. Z The similarity between the effects of clunping and those of heating the auricles and
V &inus upon the rhythm of the ventricle is 80 marked and consistent, that we may fairly
= conclude that any explanation which is sufficient for the one phenomenon must also
Z resolve the other.