In this way I have een most distinct
S relaxation of the ventricle upon vagus stimulation without any slowing of the rate
= of rhythm. Thus Plate 70, figs. 25 A and B, represents two cases taken from the
& ame heart as fig. 24 ; the pressure within the auricles was 28 and 29 centims. of
water respectively, and as is seen by the gradual slope of the curve in fig. 25 B as a
= whole, there was a slight amount of leakage from some part in consequence of the
:= high pressure ; still the curves show clearly enough that the contractions which occur
> when the nerve is stimulated start from a lower level of the lever ; and as no variations
= in the condition of the auricles was to be noticed, it seems to me that the only
2 explanation of such curyes as these is that the vagus causes a true relaxation of the
5 muscular tissue of the ventricle, and in all probability of the auricles as well. EX TI, now, we turn to the consideration of the curves obtained by the method of suspending the heart, we
© gee decided indications of the same fact; in many of the curves it can be noticed that with the diminution
BS of the beats cansed by yagus sbimulation, the diastolic line formed by joining the points of greatesb
£ relaxation falls yery slightly nearer to the abscissa than before the stimulation (Plate 69, figs. 15, 17 A, &c.),
© Another peculiarity can be seen in many of these curyes, which is 8ometimes much more pronounced
= than at other times, viz. : that with the increase in the force of the contractions, the diastolic line is raised
-S higher aboye the abscisza ; this is well shown in Plates 68, 69, figs. 10 and 17 A. This diminution of
© relaxation between the beats may be dne to an increased tonicity of the ventricle, coincident with the
S increase in the force of the contractions, or it may be cansed mechanically by the arrangement of the
© apparatus. Thus, when the clamp is not very tight the movements of both anricle and ventricle aro
A transmitted mechanically through the clamp to the other side, 80 that the contraction of the ventricle nob
only pulls the lower lever upwards bnt also slightly moves the upper lever downwards, and the reverse
with the contractions of the auricles ; therefore, if the ventricular contraction comes before the auricular
lever has reached its lowest position of relaxation, then the pull of the ventricle will not only prevent
the auricular lever falling any lower but will also increasc the 8ize of the nexb auricular contraction,
This mechanical influence of the ventricular contractions is seen in snch cases as Plate 68, fig. 14, where
the ventricular beats have produced the appearance of strong and weak beats in the auricular curye,
T6 is Poxsible then to explain the rise in the diastolic line, both of auricles and ventricle, which
often occurs after stimnlation of the vagus nerve by the fact that owing to the increase in the force of
the contractions, a stronger mechanical effect is produced upon the contractions of that part of the heart

®* Op. cit., p. 469.


1022 DR.