The vagus was stimulated
between the two vertical lines, and, as the figure shows, no effect was produced either on the rhythm or
on the force of the anricular contractions (although previous to application of the muscarin the auricular
contractions were angmented in force by the nerve stimulation); while on the other hand the ventricular
contractions were increased in force to as great an extent as at the beginning of the experiment. Also the

* Sentry, Molesch, Unters., 1865, S. 58.
+ Veber die Verinderungen der Erregbarkeit durch 4, Wiirme, S, 20. Heidelberg, 1860,


THE FROG, AND ON THE ACTION OF THE VAGUS NERVE. 1025

fact that the ventricular rhythm was throughont the same as the anricular shows that the mnscarin had
eansed the slowness and irregularity of the rhythm by its action upon the motor ganglia, and not becanse
it had rendered the anricular musele unable to respond to every impulse. The curve affords, too, a good
proof that separate and not continuous impulses pass from the ganglia to the ventricle, otherwise it is
impossible to conceive that with the increased excitability of the musele cansed by the vagus action it
- would be obliged to contract in the same slow irregular manner as the auricles. Very s0on after this curve was taken the muscarin cansed the action of the motor ganglia to cease
altogether, and then it was found that stimulation of the vagus was unable to make either yentricle or

-  auricle beat,
This shows that the vagus is not @ motor nerve to the muscle, for if it, were 80
SD it mus have caused contractions of the ventricle, seeing how powerfully it had been

& able to affect the ventricle a very short time before.

©

S! © Again, cases occur where the curves show that muscarin applied to the auricular side only had very
5

greatly reduced the size of the auricular beats, 80mewhat slowed the rhythm, and by its weakening action
S on the strength of the impulses cansed the ventricle (which had previonsly been beating synchronously
© with the auricles) to remain quiescent.