It appears, therefore, probable, that a pulpous organisable
mass first derives its matter either from the bark, or the
alburnum ; and that this matter subsequently forms the new
layer of bark ; for, if the vessels had proceeded, as radicles,-
from the inserted buds, ar grafts, such vessels would have
been, in some degree, different from the natural vessels of the
bark of the stocks; and it does not appear probable, even
without referring to the preceding facts, that vessels should
be extended, in a few days, by parts successively added to their

* The advantages, which may be obtained by pruning timber trees judiciously,
appear to be very little known, I have endeayoured to ascertain the practicability of
giving to trees such forms as will render their timber more adyantageously conver-
tible to naval or other purposes. The $uccess of the experiments, on small trees has
been complete, and the revults perfectly consistent, in eyery case, with the theory I
have endeavoured to support in former memoirs ; and I am confident, that by appro-
priate management, the trunks and branches of growing trees may be moulded into
the various forms best adapted to the use of the $ship-builder; and that the growth of
the trees may at the same time be rendered considerably more rapid, without any
expense or temporary loss to the proprietor,

+ Darwin's Phytologia.


112 Mr. Kn1curT on the Formation

extremities, from the leaves to the extremities of the roots ;
which are, in many instances, more- than two hundred feet
distant from each other. - I am, therefore, inclined to believe,
that, as the preceding facts seem to! indicate, the matter,
which composes the new bark, acquires an organisation cal-
culated to transmit the true sap towards the roots, as that fluid
progressively descends from the leaves in the spring ; but
whether the matter, which enters into the composition of the
new bark, be derived from the bark-or the alburnum, in the
ordinary course of the growth of the tree, it will be extremely
difficult to ascertain. It is, however, no difficult task to prove, that the bark does
not, in all cases, spring from the alburnum; for many cases
may be adduced in which it is always generated previously to
the existence of the alburnum beneath it : but none; I believe,
in which the. external surface- of the alburnum exists previ-
ously to the bark. in contact with it, except when the cortical
substance has been taken off, as in the preceding experi-
ments. In the radicle of germinating seeds, the cortical ves-
sels elongate, and new portions of bark are successively
added to their points, many days before any alburnous sub-
stance is generated in them; and in the succulent annual
shoot the formation of the bark long precedes that of the
alburnum.