The sub-division of the pleuro-peritoneal cavity by the hypoblastic branchial pouches
in the early embryo, the rapid closure of those cavities (the *head-cavities”), and the

relation of the skeletal bars of the pharynx and mouth, whether deep or superficial—all



\ DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL IN STURGEONS. 179

these things have to be carefully reflected upon before any classification of these ventral

arches can be made,

Tt seems to me that a cartilaginous arch developed inside a recently-closed © head-
cavity” must be a part of the © splanchno-pleure,” and that a cartilage developed
outside such a recently-closed cavity must belong to the © somato-pleure.” *

The bs belong to the outer lamina of the body-wall of the embryo, 80 also, it
appears to me, do the © extra-branchials” of the Lamprey, the Tadpole, and the Shark. Tf all this be true, the normal © intra-branchial ” arches have no counterparts what-
ever in the s8keleton of the trunk ; they culminate in the class of Fishes, and are
xpperfectly developed, not only in the Abranchiata, but also in the degenerate
Farsipobranchii, and the metabolic Amphibia, Anura.

2 The extra-branchials of some of these latter types, and of the Sharks, have some
ht and title to be classified as a sort of cephalic ribs, but perhaps that claim had
tter nob be pressed for the present ; ib is safer for the Morphologist' to keep

Ertain things in solution, when any doubt remains, than to crystallize them into what

Hay turn oub to be obstructive error.

&Tn the metamorphosis of the larval Sturgeon the additional parts are eaxsily

Splained, and are, for the most part, due to mere increase of certain tracts of tissue, and

Qiper-additions of secondary nuclei of cartilage, and of various centres of ossification. Moreover, the fact that the dermal scutes are largely dominated by the cartilaginous

Hidoskeletal structures of the cranium and pharynx, however interesting from one
point of view, is not of any great fundamental importance.

2 With regard to the great *shoots” of cartilage that grow out, forwards, from the
imary basis-cranii, these are parts that undergo a most extraordinary amount of

Kodification in various types; they are specialised superadditions to the essential
ull, of great importance in Taxonomy, but of little account in that which is funda-

FSental in Morphology.

3 Comparison with Polyodon.

: The skull of the other principal existing Chondrosteous Ganoid type comes singularly

ear to that of the Acipenserine s8kull, and in some things is curiously unlike it. Near

Polyodon approaches in the structure of its skull to Acipenser, ib differs in having
no complex metapterygoid plate, in the feebler ossification of its visceral arches, and in
the presence of three pairs of © endosteal ” centres not to be found in the Sturgeon. The anterior palatine ectostosis placed just where both the mesopterygoid and pala-
tine plates meet in the Sturgeon, is probably the true homologue of the palatine bones
of the Holostean Ganoids ; the presence of a small prootic and opisthotic brings us
nearer in this case to those higher types.