In an extremely able paper, a translation of which is published in the nods pron
|

Magazine for October, 1866, the Petersburg philosopher compares the methods p!

by Macxnus and myself respectively. Insufficient sensitiveness and the disturbangl
due to convection currents, caused him, he says, to abandon the method of Maaxus,.
« Although,” he continues, © this method of investigating absorption may, in the hands
of 80 experienced and expert an experimenter as Professxor MaGxvs, be an appropriate.
one for determining absolute values with great certainty, I feel bound, from my own
experience, to give a decided preference to TyNDALL's method, not only on account of
the greater facility with which it furnishes qualitative [quantitative] results, but also
in consequenece of its greater delicacy. Tt is principally in consequence of this greater
delicacy that, notwithstanding the negative results furnished by Macxus's method, T

maintain that the greater absorptive power of moist air, as compared with d

ry, has

been fully established by the experiments made according to TYNDALL's method ; and

IT am of opinion that meteorologists may without hesitation accept this new
their endeavours to explain phenomena which hitherto have remained more
enigmatical.”

fact in
or less

In 1866 MAGxvs varied his method of experiment, seeking to solve the question of
absorption by observations on radiation. ©T have,” he says, © made a few determina-
tions of the radiation of dry and moist air, and of some other gases and vapours. Up
to the present time,” he continues, © the capacity of these bodies to transmit heat has
alone been determined.” + He then describes his arrangement :—* The gases and

vapours were passed through a brass tube of 15 millimeters internal diameter,

which

was placed horizontally and heated by gas flames. One end of the tube was bent up-
wards 80 that the heated air ascended vertically, while at a distance of 400 millimeters
from the vertical current, was placed the thermopile.” When dry air was sent through

this tube, the deflection produced was three divisions of a scale; when air

which

had passed through water at a temperature of 15% C. was sent through the tube, the
deflection rose to five divisions ; when the water was warmed to 60? or 80* FAHR.,
the deflection was 20 divisions; and when the water boiled, the deflection was
100 divisions.