STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF LEPIDOSTEUS. 411

e use this argument without offering any opinion as to whether the diphycercal
of the tail of many Crassopterygide is primary or secondary. |

3) The argument just used is snpported by the degenerate and variable state of
end of the vertebral axis in the Dipnoi—a condition most easily explained by
i hs ming that the terminal part of the tail has become aborted.

(4) We believe that in Ceratodus we have been able to trace a small number of the
yentral fin-rays s8npported by hzmal arches only, but these rays are 80 short as not to
extend 80 far back as some of the rays attached to the interspinons elements in front. These rays may probably be interpreted, like the more or less corresponding rays in
the tail of the Eel, as the last remnant of a true caudal fin. I The above considerations appear to us to show with very considerable probability
'Shat the true candal fin of the Dipnoi has become all but aborted like that of various
Aeleostei ; and that the apparent caudal fin is formed by the anal and dorsal fins
Jneeting round the end of the s8tump of the tail.

@ From the adult forms of Dipnoi we are, however, of opinion that no conclusion can
= drawn as to whether their ancestors were provided with a diphycercal or a hetero-
form of caudal fin.

= The general conclusions with reference to the tail fin at which we have arrived are
| he following :—

BS (1) The ventral lobe of the tail-tin of Pisces differs from the other unpaired fins in
he fact that its fin-rays are directly supported by spinous processes of certain of the
Swmal arches instead of independently developed interspinous bones. S (2) The presence or absence of fin-rays in the tail fin supported by hamal arches
Say be used in deciding whether apparently diphycercal tail fins are aborted or

punitive,
EXCRETORY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS.
5 I.—Anatomy.

5 The exeretory organs of Lepidosters have been described by Mile (No. 13) and
Rave, (No. 11). These anatomists have given a fairly adequate account of the
generative ducts in the female, and HyRrTL bas also described the male generative
ducts and the kidney and its duct, but his description is contradicted by our obser-
vations in s8ome of the most fundamental points.