We hope to show that the
inner wall of the ac is alone equivalent to the genital ridge of, for instance, the ovary

j of Seyllium. The outer aspect of this wall—.e., that turned towards the interior of
\ the sae—is equivalent to the outer aspect of the Elasmobranch genital ridge, on
+ which alone the ova are developed.* The sac into which the ova fall is, as we shall

show in the embryological section, a special section of the body-cavity shut off from
2the remainder, and the dehiscence of the ova into this cavity is equivalent to their

Sdischarge into the body cavity in other forms.

= The oviduct (Plate 26, fig. 60, od.) is a thin-walled duct of about 21 centims. in
Slength in the example we are describing, continuous in front with the ovarian sac,
Sand gradually tapering behind, till i ends (od".) by opening into the dilated terminal

"Szection of the kidney duct on the inner side, a short distance before the latter unites

Zwith its fellow. It is throughout closely attached to the ureter and placed on its

Sinner, and to some extent on its ventral, aspect, The hindermost part of the oviduct

Swhich runs beside the enlarged portion of the kidney duct—that portion called by

2 HyrrL the horn of the urinary bladder—is 80 completely enveloped by the wall of the

=Zhorn of the urinary bladder as to appear like a projection into the lumen of the latter

Structure, and the somewhat peculiar appearance which it presents in HyuTL's figure

Zis due to this fact. In our examples the oviduct was provided with a simple opening

Sinto the kidney duct, on a slight papilla ; the peculiar dilatations and processes of the

'Zterminal parts of the oviduct, which have been described by HyrrL, not being present. H The results we have arrived at with reference to the male organs are very different

Zindeed from those of our predecessor, in that we find the testicular products to be

LCearried off by @ series of vas efferentia, which traverse the mesorchium, and are con-
tinuous with the uriniferous tubuli; 80 that the semen passes through the uriniferous

A tubuli into the kidney duct and 80 to the exterior.