On tracing
i it backwards we found that the lamina forming its outer wall arises as a fold growing
ards from the free edge of the genital ridge meeting a downward growth of the
itoneal membrane from the dorsal wall of the abdomen ; and in Plate 26, fig. 56,
\Sthese two laminz may be een before they haye met. Anteriorly the canal becomes
Sgradually smaller and smaller in correlation with the reduced size of the ovarian ridge,
'Zand ends blindly nearly on a level with the front end of the excretory organs. HD It should be noted. that, owing to the mode of formation of the ovarian ac, the
Souter 8ide of the ovary with the band of thickened germinal epithelium is turned
'Howards the lumen of the ac ; and thus the fact of the ova being formed on the
inner wall of the genital sac in the adult is explained, and the comparison which we
=Zinstituted in our description of the adult between the inner wall of the genital sac
d the free genital ridge of Elasmobranchs receives its justification.
'S It is farther to be noticed that, from the mode of formation of the ovarian sac, the
openings of the peritoneal funmels of the excretory organs ought to open into its
lumen ; and if these openings persist in the adult, they will no doubt be found in
this 8itnation.
ij Before entering on further theoretical considerations with reference to the oviduct, it
-gwill be convenient to complete our description of the excretory organs at this stage.
'& When we dissected the excretory organs out, and removed them from the body of
tbe young Fish, we were under the impression that they extended for the whole length
of the body-cavity. Great was our astonishment to find that slightly in front of the
Eend of the ovary both excretory organs and segmental ducts grew rapidly smaller and
finally vanished, and that what we had taken to be the front part of the kidney was
nothing else bub a linear streak of tissue formed of cells with peculiar granular con-
tents gupported in a trabecular work (Plate 26, 6g. 54). This discovery first led us to
investigate histologically what we, in common with previous observers, had supposed
to be the anterior end of the kidneys in the adult, and to show that they were nothing
els but trabecular tissue with cells like that of lymphatic glands.