In addition to the general Teleostean features of the emh
and larva, which can only be appreciated by those who have had an opportunity
practically working at the subject, we may point to the following development
features* as indicative of Teleostean affinities :—

(1.) The formation of the nervous system as a s0lid keel of the epiblast.

(2.) The division of the epiblast into a nervous and epidermic stratum.

(3.) The mode of development of the gut (vide pp. 369, 370).

(4.) The mode of development of the pronephros ; though, as shown on p. 420,
pronephros of Lepidosteus has primitive characters not retained by Teleostei.

(5.) The early stages in the development of the vertebral column (vide p. 388). Tn addition to these, 80 to speak, purely embryonic characters there are not a few
important adult characters :— :

(1.) The continuity of the oviducts with the genital glands.

(2.) The small size of the pancreas, and the presence of numerous 80-called
pancreatic caca.

(3.) The somewhat coiled 8mall intestine.

(4) Certain characters of the brain, e.g., the large 8ize of the cerebellum ;
presence of the 80-called lobi inferiores on the infundibulum ; and of tori 86
circulares in the mid-brain. In spite of the undoubtedly important lis of features to which we have jus call
attention, a list containing not less important characters, both embryological and ad
separating Lepidosteus from the Teleostei, can be drawn up :—

(1.) The character of the truncus arteriosus. ,

(2.) The fact of the genital ducts joining the ureters.

(3.) The presence of vasa efferentia in the male carrying the semen from the t
to the kidney, and through the tubules of the latter into the kidney duct.

(4.) The presence of a well-developed opercular gill.

(5.) The presence of a spiral valve ; though this character may possibly b
down with the extension of our knowledge.

(6.) The typical Ganoid characters of the thalamencephalon and the cereb
hemispheres (vide pp. 381 and 382).

(7.) The chiasma of the optic nerves.

* The features enumerated aboye are not in all cases confined to Lepidosteus and Teleostei, but
always eminently characteristic of the latter. STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF LEPIDOSTEUS. 431

' (8) The absence of a pecten, and presence of a vascular membrane between the
' vitreous humour and the retina.
\(9.) The opisthocecelous form of the vertebrm.
—— (10.) The articulation of the ventral parts of the hemal arches of the tail with
8ses of the vertebral column.
\(11.) The absence of a division of the muscles into dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral
divisions.
© (12.) The complete segmentation of the ovum. The list just given appears to us sufficient to demonstrate that Lepidosteus cannot
classed with the Teleostei; and we hold that Muruer's view is correct, according
Þ which Lepidosteus is a true Ganoid.