copper, zine, and other metals, about three quarters of an inch wide and three inches
long, were associated together in pairs by means of platina wires to which they were
80ldered, fig. 16, the plates of one pair being either alike or different, as might be
required. These were arranged in glasses, fig. 17, s0 as to form Voura's crown of
cups. The acid or fluid in the cups never covered the whole of any plate ; and occa-
Sionally small glass rods were put into the cups, between the plates, to prevent their
contact. Single plates were used to terminate the series and complete the connexion
with a galvanometer, or with a decomposing apparatus (899. 968. &c.), or hoth. Now
if fig. 18 be examined and compared with fig. 19, the latter may be admitted as repre-
senting the former in its simplest condition ; for the cups 1, ii, and iii of the former,
with their contents, are represented by the cells i, ii, and iii of the latter, and the
metal plates Z and P of the former by the similar plates represented Z and P in the
latter. The only difference, in fact, between the apparatus, fig. 18, and the trough
represented fig. 19, is that twice the quantity of surface of contact between the metal
and acid is allowed in the first to what would occur in the second.

1009. When the extreme plates of the arrangement just described, fig. 18, are con-
nected metallically through the galvanometer g, then the whole represents a battery
consisting of two pairs of zinc and platina plates urging a current forward, which has,
however, to decompose water unassisted by any direct chemical affinity before it can
be transmitted across the cell iii, and therefore before it can circulate. This decom-
position of water, which is opposed to the passage of the current, may as a matter of
convenience be considered as taking place either against the surfaces of the two pla-
tina plates which constitute the electrodes in the cell iii, or against the two surfaces
of that platina plate which separates the cells ii and iii, fig. 19, from each other. It