structure is not, indeed, uniformly met with in all the genera of the order ; but be-
sides the Hare and Rabbit, in which the double uterus is allowed to exist by DE GRA4F
and Cuvier*, a similar complete division of the organ obtains in the genera Sciurus,
Aretomys, Spatar, Bathyergus, Echimys, Eretizon (PF. Cov.), and Hydrocherus; while
in the genera Mus, Cavia, Celogenys, and Dasyprocta a portion of the true uterus
still remains undivided, though this part, to which alone the term corpus uteri can
be properly applied, is extremely small or radimental. Nevertheless, although the
corpus uteri exists in these genera, the true vagina is as remarkable for its length
and capacity as in those in which the corpus uteri has ceased to exist.

Hitherto the vagina has presented itself under the form of a simple undivided
canal, communicating with the urethro-sexual passage, at least after impregnation,
by a single aperture. But it is a remarkable and interesting fact that in the Sloth,
in the Mare and Ass, in the Pig, in the Cow, and probably also in other Ruminants,
the vagina in the virgin state communicates with the urethro-sexual passage by a
double aperture, in consequence of heing traversed by a narrow vertical septum or
chord. This septum has been described by veterinary authors as a hymen in the

* The structure of the female generative organs of the Hare and Rabbit was well known to DavsexTox,
who has given accurate figures of them ; but as he probably regarded the corpus uteri as an essential part of
the organ, he describes the true or proper vagina under that name. In speaking, however, of the same parts in
the Rabbit, he unconsciously admits the true nature of the latter part, observing, © Chaque corne avangoit dans
le vagin de deux lignes de longeur.” —Buyxrox, Hist. Nat., tom. vi. p. 326. And again observes, that in a rabbit
ready to bring forth, © les orifices des cornes de la matrice commencaient A dilater pour Vaccouchement
comme Vorifice interne de la matrice xe dilate en pareil cas dans la plvpart des autres animaux,”