perhaps any other insects, in their active larya state vary from about 2? to 4* Fang.
above the temperature of the surrounding medium, while the same individuals in their
perfect state, when moderately active, have a temperature of from 3* to 8? or 10? Fan.
higher than that medium; but when the same insect is very greatly excited the
amount of difference is raised to a much greater extent. There is a similar difference
between the temperature of the larya of the common Flesh Fly, Musca vomitoria, LINN.
and that of its perfect insect, only that the amount is not s0 great as in the hyme-
nopterous insects. In the Musca the amount of temperaturein the larya state seldom
exceeds 15, and in the perfect perhaps not more than 2*5, aboye that of the sur-
rounding medium. It is probable that this estimate of the difference between the
larva and perfect state of dipterous insects may be rather too little, owing to the
difficulty of making observations on these insects individually, their small size ren-
dering precision in the experiment almost impossible. But the fact is sufficiently
clear that they have not 80 high a temperature as hymenopterous insects. The same
difficulty does not exist in making observations on Jarge insects, particularly on the
large soft-bodied larvze of the Sphinges, and accordingly it is found that in these lepi-
dopterous insects we are better enabled to ascertain the maximum amount of heat
evolyed by the larva, and the difference which exists between its powers of generating
heat and that of its perfect insect. This difference is greater in lepidopterous insects
than in dipterons, and approaches nearer to the hymenopterous. It was in the larve
of lepidopterous insects that I first observed the existence, and the varying amount
of temperature in individual insects. These observations were commenced in Sep-
tember 1832. At 2Z p.m. September 14, the temperature of the atmosphere being
625 Fanr., the bulb of a thermometer was applied to the under surface of the body
of a full-grown larva of Spkinz Atropos, Lixn., which had discontinued feeding pre-