In concluding this part of my paper I will recapitulate the course of the argument
pursued. 1st. It is admitted by every one that the horizontal shelves are ancient
beaches. 2nd. I showed that no lake theory could be admitted on account of the
overwhelming difficulties in imagining the construction and removal at successive
periods of several barriers of immense size, whether placed at the months of the sepa-
rate glens, or at more distant points. 3rd. The alternative that the beaches, if not
formed by lakes, must of necessity have been 80 by channels of the sea, was not ad-
vanced, only becanse it was thought more satisfactory to prove from independent phe-
nomena, that a sheet of water gradually subsiding from the height of the upper shelves
to the present level of the ea, occupied for long periods not, only the glens of Lochaber,
but the greater number, if not all the valleys of this part of Scotland ; and that
this water must have been the water of the sea. 4th. It. was stated (the strongest
argument being the ascertained fact of the land rising at the same time in one part
and sinking in another,) that in all cases the land is the chief fluctuating element;
and, therefore, that the above change of level in Scotland, independently attested by
marine remains at considerable heights on both the eastern and western coasts, im-
plies the elevation of the land, and not the subsidence of the surrounding waters.
5th. It was shown that in all such prolonged upward movements it might be pre-
dicted, that there would þe intervals of rest in the action of the subterranean im-
pulses. 6th. By an hypothetical case, the land was subjected to the above conditions,
and its surface was found to be modeled in a manner wholly similar, even in detail,
to the structure of the valleys of Lochaber as they now exist. 7th. The trae theory
being considered thus established, objections to it from the non-extension of the
shelves, and from the absence of organic remains at great altitudes, were answered
and shown not to be valid. 8th. Many points of detail in the structure of the glens