inch in the cell containing liquid, and a decided effect was produced on the iodide.
The two batteries were left in this state for three more days; the decomposition and
the evolution of hydrogen continued in the exposed battery, but none was perceptible
in the inclosed one, although the liquid had risen a little more, viz. 0'1 cubic inch in
the hydrogen tubes of the latter. After the four days above mentioned, the jar of ni-
trogen which covered the battery was taken away, and the action of the battery was
tested by iodide of potassium. At first there was no action, but after about fifteen mi-
nutes, a slight action was perceptible; this gradually increased, and in two hours the
action was equal to that of the battery which had been from the first exposed to the
atmosphere. I cannot but regard this experiment as a conclusive negation of that
view which regards hydrogen and water as the efficient agents in the gas battery. The
opinion appears to me to have arisen from the circumstance of our working always
in an atmosphere containing oxygen, and also from the fact of this latter gas being
more s0luble than hydrogen*. If we lived in an atmosphere of hydrogen, and if this
gas were equally or more soluble than oxygen, I have little doubt that the converse
effects would be observed. A battery charged with hydrogen in one set of tubes and
acidulated water in the alternate ones, at first gives an effect nearly equal to an oxy-
hydrogen gas battery, but the action rapidly declines in the former, while it is con-
stant in the latter. Even the ordinary action of the gas battery when charged with
oxygen and hydrogen appears to me unanswerable as to the point I am now discuss-
ing. When we ee a battery of a number of cells at work, and the liquid gradually
rising in the oxygen tubes, just in the proportion in which oxygen gas is eliminated
in the voltameter, and when in a similar battery placed by its side, similarly charged,
but not connected in closed circuit, not the slightest rise takes place in any tube, it
seems impossible to adopt the conclusion that the oxygen has nothing to do with the