stance be boiled with a solution of caustic potash, it is saponified with the greatest,
facility. If the soap be decomposed by an acid, a baryta salt formed of the acid
produced, and this salt be dried and washed out with ether, a certain portion of a
substance will be taken up by the ether, which is but very slightly acted on by pot-
ash. This is that substance which has been called cerain. TI remarked that while
from the residue of the wax this matter could be procured in considerable quantities,
but a very small portion was obtained from the cerin; a portion very small in rela-
tion to the acids formed, and the quantity of which diminished with the purification
of the substance. The analysis also of the unsaponified cerin agreed closely with that
of the acid as separated from the baryta salt, and the melting-points only differed by
four or five degrees Centigrade. Further experiment showed me that the same cerin,
when boiled with caustic baryta, entered with the greatest facility into combination
with that substance. These facts led me to suspect that the formation of the unsa-
ponifiable body was due to the presence of a certain portion of the other substances
of the wax, and was no true product of the decomposition of the cerin itself ; but
that this substance was in truth no other than the acid itself existing, in a free state,
in the wax. The experiments which follow are inconsistent with any other hypothesis.

To prepare this acid bees'-wax is to be boiled out with strong alcohol, and the hot
s0]ution poured off from the undissolved residue. This operation may be repeated
with advantage three or four times. The precipitates which are formed on the cool-
ing of the alcohol are to be collected together and treated repeatedly with alcohol in
the same manner as the wax itself, until the melting-point of the precipitate is raised
to about 70? C., after which point the further purification of the body by this method
of crystallization is extremely difficult. This substance is now to be dissolved in a