marked out in unusual strength by the convexity of its lid or cover, as shown in
Plate VII. fig. 15; and this feature is often s0 pronounced in the large fossil Orbito-
lites of the Paris basin, as to become visible to the naked eye. A very marked
diversity in its degree, however, as well as in the size of the cells, is to be noticed in
the contiguous zones of another specimen (Plate VII. fig. 16); whence it is obvious
that the convexity is a mere accidental variation, and is a character of no yalue
whatever as regards the differentiation of species. The relation of the rounded to the
$quare or oblong cells is made evident by the occurrence of intermediate links of
transition. Thus, from snch circular cells as are delineated in Plate VII. fig. 9, the
passage is easy, through those shown in figs. 8 and 14, to those of fig. 6 (which are
drawn under about twice the magnifying power), and thence to the square cells of
the inner part of the portion of the disk figured in Plate VII. fig. 13. This last figure
illustrates the important fact, that while the cells in one part of the surface of the
disk are $quare, others in close proximity with them may be oblong ; thus conducting
us to the extreme form of this type, represented in Plate VII. fig. 12.

52. The foregoing considerations seem to render it obvious, that the diversities in
the form of the superficial cells do not afford any ground whatever for the establish-
ment of a corresponding multiplicity of specific types, but that they must rank as
individual variations to which there is scarcely any definite limit. If the originals of
Plate VII. figs. 5, 7, 9, 12 and. 15, had happened to have presented themselves to the
Systematist without any of the connecting forms, he might have been pardoned for
describing them as distinct species characterised by well-marked differences in the
form and arrangement of their cells; but no such differentiation can be admitted in
the face of the fact, that these are only extreme examples of variations, which show