distillation of the phosphorus-base must be performed in a stream of dry hydrogen, for
it attracts oxygen with great energy, especially at high temperatures. Tt is impoxsible
to pour the liquid from one vessel into another without its becoming perceptibly warm,
The product of oxidation formed in this way becomes evident in the last stage of the
distillation. When the larger quantity of the base has distilled over, the mercury in
the thermometer begins suddenly to rise, and before the temperature has become again
stationary, the neck of the retort is found to be coated with a network of beautiful
crystals, which are even drawn over into the receiver. These crystals are permanent as
long as they are protected from the action of the moist air. After disconnecting the
apparabus, it is vain to attempt to collect the crystals, the most minute quantity of water
causing them to liquefy to a heavy oil, soluble in water. From these remarks, it is
obvious that triethylphosphine must be almost always contaminated with a small quan-
tity of this substance ; in fact a bottle containing the base cannot be opened without
its being formed. When the phosphorus-base is brought in contact with oxygen,
vapours are immediately formed ; the liquid frequently becomes s0 hot that it inflames,
and the body is burnt with evolution of dense white fumes of phosphoric acid. If a
strip of paper, moistened with triethylphosphine, be introduced into a test-tube contain-
ing oxygen and immersed into hot water, the vapour of the phosphorus-base produces
with the oxygen an explosive mixture, which detonates after a few moments with con-
siderable violence. When poured into a flask filled with chlorine gas, every drop is
inflamed with disengagement of pentachloride of phosphorus and hydrochloric acid, and
Separation of carbon. Triethylphosphine unites with bromine and iodine, evolving con-
siderable heat, which may give rise to inflammation ; but if the action be moderated,
crystalline compounds are produced. . In cyanogen gas the phosphorus-base is converted
into a brown resinous mass. If a piece of sulphur be thrown into a test-tube containing