tain the same fluid, almost completely free from all traces of organic substances*.

* I have instituted, at great labour to myself, a scries of variously devised observations, with a view to set
at rest, if possible, the question relative to the real source and nature of the fluid contained in the peritoneal
cavity of Asterias Rubens, and through this example, to close the controversy, in relation to all other Echino-
derms. First, then, is it salt-water ? if 80, how does it gain admission into the cavity in which it is contained ?
For answer, I affirm that under the ordinary circumstances under which these animals are examined, it is
almost pure sea-water; but in the natural state (that is, when the water taken into the digestive organs
contains, as it always does in their native habitat, organic substances, living and dead), it is a chylaqueous
fluid, in which the first steps of vitalization and organization have commenced, and that in Asterias 1T is THz
REAL SUBJECT of the respiratory process, the true-blood not being brought in any way under the agency
of the external element. This answer applies to ar Echinoderms, The existence and offices of this fluid
explain the fact of the suppressed or rudimentary development, under which the true-blood system obtains in
these animals. The latter performs merely the functions of pabulating very partially the solid elements of
structure : the chylaqueous fluid is the veritable seat of the blood-making and respiratory processes. And
2nd, I reply that every method of examination fails in proving the existence of any pores or orifices of any sort
whatever in the integumentary boundaries of the peritoneal space in Asterias. MULLER has arrived at the ame
conelusion.

He remarks, * Die respiratorischen R6hrchen auf dem Riicken der Asterien, welche mit der BauchhGhle
communiciren, sollen zufolge der Injectionen von 'I1zpexann am Ende offen sein, und zum Wechsel des
Waszers der LeibeshGhle dienen, Nach Euzexzure dagegen sind die Rohbrchen am Ende geschlossen, er
sowohl als Syaretr Sahben die Stromungen im Innern am Ende umkehren, An jungen lebenden Exemplaren
des Asteracanthion violaceus sah ich daselbe, und es gelang mir nicht eine Oeffnung wahrzunehmen.”
(MiLLzs, Archiv, 1850, 121.)