undergoes this change, and that the substance of the nucleus is afterwards absorbed, leaving the lacuna (Topp
and Bownax?).” The nucleus described by Topp and Bowwax is identical with that which in this communi-
cation is called the granular cell, and from which the authors have shown the lacuna is formed. © Hexrz?
thinks that the lacuna is a cavity left in the centre of a cell which has been partially filled up by calcification,
and that the canaliculi are branched passages, also left in consequence of the unequal depoxition of the hard
matter, as in the instance of the pore cells of plants.” * It rather appears to me as if the lacunz and canali-
culi were little varieties left in the tissue during the depoxition of the reticular fibres, as open figures are left
out in the weaving of some artificial fabrics (but not within a cell, as HzxLz imagined), and that thus the appo-
sition of the minute apertures existing between the reticulations of the lamellz gives rise to the canaliculi.,” © At
the same time it seems not unlikely that a cell or a cell-nucleus may originally lie in the lacuna or central cavity,
and may perhaps determine the place of its formation.” HassaLL* agrees with Scawanx, while Gznpzx® and
Buvxs* appear to hold the views of Topy and Bowman. With the exception of Dr. Snanrer, the above-
named authorities may perhaps differ more in the use of terms than in matter of fact. The appearances
represented in figs. 14 and 27 would at first view seem to justify the opinion expressed by Dr. Snarrey,
but a careful examination of the tissue during its development, the unquestionable fact that in the deyelopment
from cartilage the granular cell becomes converted into a lacuna, together with the circumstance that lacunal
cells are frequently found in the Haversian canals and cancellated structure, especially in the bones of old sub-
Jects, and at times imbedded in the structure of the bone, have left no room for douht in the authors' minds that
the lacunz are formed from special nucleated cells, in the manner dexcribed in the text.

* Mikroscopische Untersuchungen. ? Physiological Anatomy. * Anatomie Generale.
* Mieroscopic Anatomy of the Human Body, p. 310. * Allgemeine Anatomie,


132 MESSRS. J. TOMES AND C. DE MORGAN ON THE