will be an-invariant. to F, @ and Q (this last quantity Q being defined as in p. 524), and a combinantive covariant
to f and & in. the same sense precisely as the Bezoutiant is a covariant to the same, and like the Bezoutiant
is lineo-linear in respect of the coefficients of F and p. | If we operate with the 8ymbol Z, where E Lepredents
art _ .vvg+ ax + 2v, .uz) + &e. Hats
vpon K any invariant of F and p, we shall obtain #.K, a quadratic function of v,vg...vm, which by the rules of the
Calculus of Forms we knowwillbe a.contravariant tofand 9,and the matrix corresponding|to which must, evidently}
be persymmetrical. It is an interesting subject of inquiry, which I reserye for 8ome future occasion, to determine
the Co-bezoutiant, the Discriminant of which must be employed for K, so that when this discriminant is operated
upon by F, the matrix corresponding to F.K may become, identical (term for, term) with the matrix which is
the inverse to the Bezoutiant matrix, which inverse, as Jacopr has 80 simply and beautifully demonstrated,
possesses this persymmetrical character... Vide the © De Eliminatione,” section. 5., | The investigation of the
arithmetical connexion between the Q of this note and the fundamental Co-bezoutiants must be als0 similarly
reserved. [I believe it to be generally true, and have verified the fact for the case of two cubic functions, that
F.Q gives a quadratic form zuch that the corresponding matrix is the inverse to the matrix' of Q. '/The calon-
lations necessary for extending the'verification/ of this 'remarkable proposition for functions /of \2;,/y exceeding
the third degree (notwithstanding that they are much abbreviated by the application of the rules of the cal-

culus) till remain exceively laborious. The abbreviation alluded to consists in confining tlie verification in

question to the comparison of either 'one of the two unreiterated terms at opposite 'corners 'of the matrix to

E.Q with the corresponding' term in the inverse matrix of Q;"if these| coincide, It is easy to prove that every

other pair of correspondiig terms/in the two matrices must also coincide respectiyely with one another,
