that many of them which in small quantities in the dark tube transmit an amethystine
light, send forward a ruby light when the quantity is increased ; and this appears to be
the general progression. I have not found any which by increase in quantity tended to
transmit the blue rays in preference to the red.

Elevation of temperature had an effect upon these fluids which is advantageous in
their preparation. On boiling an apparently clear ruby fluid for some time, its colour
passed a little towards amethystine, and on boiling a like amethystine fluid, its tint
passed towards blue. The separation of the gold particles was also facilitated, for now
they would settle in three or four days from a fluid which, prior to this operation, would
not have deposited them in an equal degree for weeks. In the case of the ruby fluids
the colour often became more rosy and luminous, and by reflected light the fluid seemed
to have became more turbid, as if the particles had gained in reflective power ; in fact
the boiling often appeared to confer a sort of permanency on the particles in their new
state. When settled, they formed collections looking like little lenses of a deep ruby or
violet colour, at the bottom of the flasks containing the fluid; when all was shaken up
the original fluid was reproduced, and then, by rest, the gold re-settled. This effect could
be obtained repeatedly. The particles could fall together within a certain limit, but
many weeks did not bring them nearer or into contact; for they remained free to be
diffused by agitation. The space they occupied in this lens-like form must have been a
hundredfold, or even a thousandfold, more than that, which they would have filled as
solid gold. Whether the particles be considered as mutually repulsive, or els as mole-
cules of gold with associated envelopes of water, they evidently differ in their physical
condition, for the time, from those particles which by the application of salt or other
substances are rendered mutually adhesive, and s0 fall and clot together.