broader, and thicker in all its dimensions. In one specimen a series of eight or nine
plates (Plate LXIX. «) is preserved, indicating the existence of the appendages of the
hyoid arch, which are wanting in the recent Sturgeon. These homologues of the
branchiostegous rays of bony fishes are flat, elongated bony lamine, of which the upper
one is the longest. They are seen in their natural position, behind the hyoid bones and
immediately below the opercular flap. They have the ganoid character of the corre-
sponding parts in the fossil genus Packycormus, but are fewer in number than in that and
the allied genera. The only portions of the branchial arches I have been able to deter-
mine are the epibranchials (Plate LX VILE. fig. 2, «a, 6, c, 4). 'These are four in number.
The first or anterior bone is the longest. The upper extremity is broad and thin, the
shaft and lower extremity slender and cylindrical. 'The two succeeding bones are less
expanded above and are rather shorter. The last of the series differs from the others
in having its broader extremity directed downwards. It is in fact very similar in form
to the ceratohyal bone, but differs in having the upper extremity and the shaft rather
more cylindrical. The number corresponds with that of the homologous parts of bony
fishes, if we limit the term branchial arch to the gill supporting bones, to the exclusion
of the pharyngeal arch. The proportions of the epibyals in the fossil correspond with
those of the same parts in most of the bony tishes, the firs} being the longest, and the
fourth the shortest, with a broad inferior articulation.
The sphenoid bone (Plate LXVIIL. fig. 1, 0»), constituting the base or platform of the
cranial cavity, is more completely ossified in the extinct than in the recent Sturgeon ;
hence its preservation in the fossil state. 'The anterior or presphenoid portion of the
bone (Plate LXVIIL. fig. 1, 9) is extended forwards beyond the palatal bones, and the
basisphenoid (Plate L'XVILL. fig. 1, 5) projected backwards to the point of junction of
the trunk with the head. The posterior termination of the bone was deeply notched,