giving any idea of their complexity.” ; GEGENBAUERþ, was the first accurately to describe
the internal free. umbrella-shaped, ciliated extremity of this organ in the Earth-worm.

Thus then, in the genus Zaumbricus, these ciliated tubes have been long known to
exist.; but as to their minute anatomy and their real function, nothing but confusion
and contradiction have prevailed. It, should be further understood, that, of the many
anatomists who have more or less specially observed and studied these organs, not one
has ever hinted (either directly or indirectly) at the relation in which they stand to the
reproductive system. But the recent paper of HerNGy, on the organs of generation in
the Earth-worm, requires a special historical notice. In the course of the sneceeding
description it will be seen that the author differs from Herr HeriNG on the following
important points :—l1st, as to the size and position of the ovaria; 2nd, not only as to the
distribution of the s0-called vas deferentia; but 3rd, as to the very fact of the existence
of these ducts under any shape; and 4th, and most fundamentally, as to the connexion
between the generative masses and the **segmental organs.” To this latter point HERRING
makes no reference whatever. Lastly, the author is desirous to correct an error into
which he himself was drawn while writing his © Report on the British Annelids” for the
British Association (1852). By reference to that Report it will be seen that, in the
worms examined in that year, the * segmental organs ” in every annulus of the body
were crowded with a vast multitude of the ova and young of a certain species of FILARIA.
By the singular appearance thus caused, the author was induced to regard the ordinary
segmental organs as in truth nothing but ovaries, looking upon the © central reproductive
masses ” as having experienced some special and distinctive development. Subsequent
and most carefully-conducted researches have convinced him that. he then mistook the
ova, and young of an Entozoon infesting the Earth-worm for those of the animal itself.