least developed condition (fig. 9 @. n, c). It is probable, therefore, that the chylaqueous
X fluid which this tube is designed to discharge, flows throughout the entire extent of the
A organ from the point of entrance (3) to that of exit (@), before it escapes externally. In
S this course the fluid may afford the materials of nourishment to the ova (in the direction
I of the arrows) as they travel from one limb to the other of the looped organ, and this is
Z the more probable, as the proper tunic of the organ is very scantily supplied with blood-
Hvessels.
S, "The organ itself in the common leech (fig. 9) may be described as a looped tube, the
5 limbs («, 4?) of which, returning upon themselves, and one invaginating the other, open
= Z extornally at the same point. These organs form two series, one on either side of the
Zstomach. They are external to the stomach and to the testicular series. There are
S therefore (as in Nais and Tambricus) two of these organs in each ring of the body.
I This fact is of morphological value, for the testes bear no relation either in number or
SE position to the annuli of the body. The organs stand vertically i situ, the ends («, @)
2 S being attached to the abdominal surface, and the fundus (b) floating guts near the
# roof of the containing chamber.
EZ 1n order to the further examination of these delicate organs they must now be cut
S out, as closely to the abdominal surface as possible, by means of small curved scissors.
S They should then be floated in water on a glass slide, covered by a thin slip and placed
Z under the microscope. If the organs have been successfully dissected out, it will be seen
= that one limb (@) is broader and more transparent than the other (9 @). In the former
© mb (a?) the ova (&) are merely pellucid cells, consisting exclusiy ely of the germinal
vesicle and germinal spot. Tn the latter limb (9 @) the ova (5) have acquired their full
complement of vitellus. At this stage they exhibit a flattened ovoid form. 'This fact
affords a demonstration as to the course taken by the ova in their passage from the ovary