294 MR. PRESTWICH ON FLINT-IMPLEMENTS.

Menchecourt. In proceeding to St. Acheul, at a short distance eastward, and nearly on
the same level, is a bed of 15 to 20 feet of clay and sand. A little way higher up the
hill the chalk comes to the surface, or is merely covered by 2 or 3 feet of brick-earth.
The beds at St. Roch and St. Acheul, whatever may have been the case originally, are
not now continuous. Still they trend one towards the other round the base of the hill,
having been traced along part of the railway cutting.

Nore.—T again visited Abbeville and Amiens in June 1859 with some other Members of the Geological
Society. On this occasion my friend Mr. J. W. FLowzr succeeded, after some search, in disinterring with
his own hands a fine and large flint-implement at a depth of 22 feet from the original surface of the ground,
—an important and conclusive fact to which we all bore witness. An account of this discoyery has been
communicated to the Geological Society. (Quart. Journ, yol. xvi. p. 190.)

Shortly afterwards Sir OnanLEs LYELL visited the pits, and expressed an opinion confirmative of the
antiquity of the flints at the Meeting of the British Ass0ciation at Aberdeen (see Report of the Pro-
ceedings). He was followed by M. GavpRr of Paris, who spent several days at Amiens for the purpose of
exploring the pits, and witnessed the finding of nine flint-implements. The result of his obseryations he
communicated to the Institute of France in October 1859 (ee the Comptes Rendus of the 3rd Oct.).
M. Geors Povcuer, of Rouen, deputed by the municipality of Rouen to visit the pits, published a report,
in which he described his having seen and extracted a worked flint i $itz, and fully confirming M. Bovousr
DE PerTHEs' discovery (Actes du Mus. d'Hist. Nat. de Rouen, 1860, p. 33). M. DzsxorEgRs and M. Htpery
have als0 made a further examination of this singular locality, respecting which M. Htperys has given some
additional explanation to the Geological Society of France (Bull. yol. xvii. p. 103).—April 1860.