Sprojections from the margin of the disk (Fig. II. n). Notwithstanding, however, this
= strongly marked difference in general physiognomy, it becomes obvious, on the com-
© parison of a sufficient number of individuals, that no line of specific distinction can be
Sfairly drawn on such a basis between the Philippine and the Mediterranean forms ;
2B 8ince among the Philippine we meet with not a few specimens, in which the spines are
2 as few and simple as they are in the great bulk of the Mediterranean (Fig. III. B, ©);
EZ and specimens not unfrequently present themselves among the Mediterranean (Plate XIX.
Z fig. 2), in which there is not merely an addition to the ordinary number of the spines, but
= a manifest disposition in many of them to subdivide near their extremities, thus showing
Z an obvious approximation to the Philippine type. Although the spines usually radiate
Z nearly in the. equatorial plane, yet it becomes obvious, when their connexion with the
S central disk is examined, that they originate at different levels (Fig. III. s, Þ); this will
E presently be found to depend on the fact that the form of the spire is not nautiloid but
= turbinoid. Besides the ordinary radiating spines, an extraordinary growth of short pointed
spines is sometimes seen, either partially or completely covering one or both surtaces of
the central disk (Fig. II. 6); and examples occasionally present themselves (Fig. I. 4), in
which the development of these seems to have altogether superseded that of the ordinary
radiating spines.
198. It is remarkable that among the very young specimens of this type, a yet greater
variety hows itself than among those further advanced in life. In Plate XIX. figs. 5,
6, and 7, are shown what may be considered the ordinary or normal aspect of the very
young Calcarina; whilst in figs. 8-11, and Plate XX. fig. 6, we have representations
(under higher magnifying powers) of examples of what may be termed the hispid con-
dition, which 80 frequently presents itself in small Calcarine as to give rise to a question
whether they should not be made to constitute a distinct species. TI have satisfied