
nating at Ashford and Ramsgate ; the third, on the short group from Ramsgate to
Margate, is less delicate. I may mention that arrangements of this kind are general, the
long circuits being furnished with the best instruments. This Table is a good specimen
of the notes that are usually taken, and of the manner in which the returns are sent in.
Tn the column headed < Direction,” the observyers insert the letter to which the telegraph
needles point; I have substituted for this the direction in which a derived current
of poxitive electricity would be travelling when that letter was made. By N., I mean a
positive current passing from the station that is more northerly to the one that is more
southerly, and by S. vice versd. And in all cases, as well in this as in the Tables and
diagrams that follow, the magnetic north is referred to. 'The value of the deflections
observed on the needles are in this Table expressed in very general terms. The word
Qu hard over” means 45?, or thereabouts; © horizontal,” 80? or more, in fact as far oyer
As it can well go. I have placed a copy of this Table in the hands of Professor EL1ag
oMIs, as he had no continuous s8eries like this in the collection of observations that
He had published, Tt contains some of the details for which M. Ds La Rive inquired.
Shis Table may be taken as correct as far as it goes. It contains many blank spaces, the
Bbservations having necessarily been discontinued from time to time. The changes of
She needles from right-hand to left-hand deflections are gradual. One of my best
-Sbservers 8ays, * I haye not at any time known the needles to return suddenly from their
Fleflected position. TI have frequently observed them to pass very quickly from one side
© the other in a gradual manner, as though worked round by some slow-moving ma-
Fhinery, but never to drop suddenly. TI have also observed the needles to partially right
Jhemselves, and then to be brought back again to quite as strong, and frequently much
Stronger deflected position.” The manner in which the change from a north to a south