
I Slight ” and © middling,” when those in the former are © strong ” and * yery strong ”
Q (8ee Table XII.). There is no material difference in mileage.
Z Again, the bearing of the London—Dover line is the same as that of the Reading—
S Red Hill. Currents, some even of high value, are frequent in the former, but have been
S rarely noticed, and then only in very small amount in the latter.
E These-apparent anomalies lead to the conclusion that the amount of current travel-
Zling through the substance of the earth during a magnetic storm is not the same in all
Sparts of a large district ; and this must needs be the case. The more fayourably the con-
Z ducting materials may be disposed in the geological strata of a district, the greater the
2 value of the current-drift along the same may be expected to be. Where the materials
Sare of inferior conducting power and ill arranged, there will the current that is present
'Z have a lower value. In fact these currents travel, as might be anticipated, in the con-
Z Aucting mass of the earth, just as they travel in all other conductors, and adjust and
2 distribute themselves according to the known laws of resistance.
7 In STuRGroN's © Annals of Electricity,” vol. 1. p. 124, is a paper by Mr. Hexwoop © On
S the Electric Currents observed in some Metalliferous Veins,” a discovery which the
E author rightly attributes to Mr. Fox*. In the © Annual Reports of the Royal Poly-
= technic Society of Cornwall for 1836, 1841, and 1842, are reports * On Mineral Veins,”
Y by Ropgre WErg Fox, and © On the Electricity of Mineral Veins,” by Roptkr Huxt
S and Professor PHILLIPs. It is more than probable that the electric currents which were
= found by these gentlemen to be traversing the metallic veins in the mines of Cornwall,
A were in many instances portions of great floods of electricity, drifting along the district
in which the mines were placed, forming in fact a portion of larger disturbances attend-
ing on magnetic storms. The derived currents which were collected by their galvano-