it is there due, may possibly diminish rapidly in receding from the fall; and 80 far it
would follow that, where the structure is continued to any considerable distance from
the locality in which it was formed, it must be due in a great degree to transmission.
But this is a question which I reserve for further discussion.

54. Differential Theory of the Veined Structure.—The idea on which this theory is
founded has already been stated at the beginning of this section (art. 40); and the modes
in which dislocation may take place 80 as to admit of the more rapid motion of the
central portion of a glacier, have been explained. It has also been pointed out (art. 36)
that the real differential or relative motion of two contiguous particles of the mass must
necessarily be in the common direction in which the particles are constrained to moye,
by virtue of the external conditions to which the whole glacier is subjected. This, in
fact, belongs to the definition of © differential motion ” as I understand the term ; nor
can I conceive how any mechanical effects, such as dislocation or bruising, can be attri-
buted to a © differential motion ” in any arbitrary or conventional sense, rather than to
the real relative motion which I understand to be meant by the expression. If s0, it
appears to me impossible to accept this theory of the veined structure without a far more
explicit explanation than any which has yet been given of it. As8uming, then, what I
conceive to be the only intelligible and determinate meaning of the aboye expression, I
Shall proceed to investigate certain geometrical results which flow from it. Since the
investigation is entirely geometrical, we may suppose the surface of the glacier and its
longitudinal axis to be horizontal. I shall also suppose the line of motion of every
particle to be parallel to that axis, and the velocity to be invariable along each such line,
but different for different lines, (1) because the velocity of the central is 8upposed to be
greater than that of the marginal portions of the mass, and (2) because the yelocity of