Tn resuming the reduction and coordination of the obseryations of the Antarctic M
netic Survey, it may be permitted to recall to remembrance that the system, in accordani
with which the surveying compasses both of the © Erebus* and © Terror * were employed,
was the same which had been originally adopted by the writer of these Contributions,
and its practical value exemplified, in H.M. Ship *© Isabella,” in the first of the voyages
of Arctic discovery in 1818, as described in the Philosophical 'Transactions for 1819,
Art. VIIT. The position of the standard compass, and the methods adopted to pro»
vide the data required for the investigation and eventual correction of the deviations
occasioned by the disturbing influence of the ship's iron, were the sxame. In M. PoissoN's
© M6moire swr les d6viations de la boussole produites par le fer des vaisseaux ? (1838),
the applications and verifications of the fundamental equations of his theory were exem-
plified and established by M. Porssox himself (pp. 47-49), by the accordance of their
calculated results with the facts observed and recorded in the Arctic voyages of 1818,
1819, and 1820. The convenient and practical formulz for computing the corrections
of the three magnetic elements, which were subsequently derived from Po1ss0xN's funda-
mental Equations by Mr. ARCHIBALD SMITH (Philosophical Transactions, 1843, Art. X.),
have since furnished, and still continue to furnish, the means of surmounting, even in
an extreme case, sch as that of a survey executed in the high magnetic latitudes of the
southern hemisphere, and in dips even exceeding —88*, the serious embarrassments
which would otherwise have been occasioned by the iron which necessarily formed part
of the equipment of the ships. Sir Jaxns Ross was one of the junior midshipmen of
the © Isabella”* in the voyage of 1818; and thus early commenced that interest in the
general subject of Terrestrial Magnetism, and that practical acquaintance with the
resources which modern science has introduced, by which in his subsequent career he
has earned for himself and for his country 80 distinguished a place in the history of thab