Slight abnormal deficiency of matter. But Table I. shows a north horizontal force at
©Dodagoontah, more than four miles south of Bangalore. This would seem to imply that
he slight deficiency of matter which causes the defect of gravity at Bangalore runs
Murther south of Dodagoontah than it does north. It is generally difficult to compare
-Zthe horizontal and vertical effects of a hypothetical excess or defect of matter, as all
depends upon its situation relatively to the stations. Thus an excess or defect imme-
Hliately below a station will not affect the plumb-line, whereas a defect or excess near
:2the surface, and between stations and far from both, will not affect the vertical force
Amaterially. On the whole the peculiarities at Damargida, Kalianpur, and Bangalore
Seem to be sufficiently accounted for. The other residual errors in Table VIIL., at
SKaliana and Minicoy, are 80 small that they may be considered evanescent ; and seeing
Shat the local attractions at those places, as shown in the firs: column of Table VIIL.,
=are very large, this result speaks decidedly in favour of the hypothesis. The fact that
Sthe anomalous cireumstance is accounted for by the hypothesis, that a station out at sea
—&xhibits a considerable increase in gravity, although surrounded by the ocean, which has
=" deficiency of attracting matter, is a very strong argument in favour of the hypothesis.
Were the exact contour of the continent and the neighbouring sea-bed better known, the
Expplication of this method might be carried out more completely. As it is, however,
Apyhat remains unexplained is not important.”

When we remember, then, that the calculations have been conducted in the particular
case of the distribution of matter, in excess and defect, being uniform, whereas in
the contracting of the mass this is not at all likely to have strictly been the case, and
observe the way in which the hypothesis nearly explains the errors, while the usually
received method does not do 80 at all, but indeed aggravates them considerably, I think