noid fishes, must haye remarked that in the conclusion of the preceding chapter I have
touched upon a subject which had been approached by Professor HuxLty from a palwon-
tological point of view*. One result of his examination of the Devonian fishes was
the establishing a separate suborder of Ganoids, Cross0pterygide, which comprises the
Ganoids provided with fringed or lobate fins and generally with gular plates, branchio-
stegals being absent. This suborder was divided by him into five families of extinct
fishes, chiefly from the Devonian epoch, viz. Saurodipterini, Glyptodipterini, Ctenodo-
dipterini, Phaneropleurini, and Colacanthini; Polypterus was as80ciated with them as

* « Preliminary Es8ay upon the Systematic Arrangement of the Fishes of the Devonian Epoch,” by T. H.
Hvxrzy, F.R.8., in Mem, Geolog. Survey, Dec, 10, 1861. At that time, when Zepidosiren was till the only repre-
s8entative of Mvrrxr's subclass Dipnoi, Professor HuxLey pointed at its affinity to certain Ganoids :—* Without
wishing to lay too much stress upon the fact, T may draw attention to the many and singular relations which
obtain between that wonderful and apparently isolated fish, Zepidosiren, sole member of its order, and the cycloid
Glyptodipterine, Ctenododipterine, Phaneropleurine, and Colacanth Crossopterygide. Lepidosiren is, in fact,
the only living fish whose pectoral and yentral members haye a structure analogous to that of tho acutely lobate,
paired fins of Holoptychius, of Dipterus, or of Phaneropleuron, though the fin-rays and surface-scales are still
less developed in the modern than in the ancient fich, The endoskeleton of Zepidosiren, again, is as nearly as
pos8ible in the 8ame condition as that of Phaneropleuron, and is more nearly similar to the skeleton of the
Caolacanths than that of any other recent fish [quare Acipenser? A. G.]; while, perhaps, it is not stretching the
8earch for analogies too far to discover in the stiff-walled lungs of Lepidosiren a structure more nearly repre-
senting the ossified air-bladder of the Cozlacanths than any with which we are at present acquainted, among
recent or fossil fishes. Furthermore, Lepidosiren is the only fish whose teeth are comparable in form and
arrangement to those of Dipterus. Though Lepidosiren may not be included among the Crossopterygidae, uor
even in the order of Ganoidei, the relations just pointed out are not the les distinet ; and perhaps they gain in