chyma, with large cells and thin transparent walls, and with a few large chlorophyl-
grains in each cell, Yet more externally this parenchyma gradually passes into a thin-
< walled fusiform prosenchyma, the walls of the cells becoming thicker as we proceed
S outwards, until at their external surfaces they present a woody structure, forming the
© outermost envelope of the stem. But on turning to the leaves we find something more :
Z the substance of each leaf is parenchymatous, besides which it has a true epidermal
S layer of sinuous cells and stomata on its under surface *.
5 In Lycopodium chamaecyparissus, though the central fibro-vascular mass is more
BD complex than that just described, it is, as Sacus justly points out, essentially the same ;
S but the air-cylinder of the Selaginelle is absent, as is also the inner parenchyma of the
Z bark. The prosenchymatous layer is very thick, and closely embraces the fibro-yascular
= bundle; its component cells also are much more thickened by ligneous deposits in their
2 interiors than in S. Martens. Another important difference exists in the fact that the
S parenchyma of the leaves now extends itself over the entire stem, forming an outer
B cortical layer; but this is not invested by any true epidermis, such as is seen covering
Z the leaves.
£2 If we turn from these general features to some special points in the development of
& these plants, we shall find that new light is thrown upon the fossil forms. The young
= growing bud at the tip of a Lycopod is composed externally of ordinary parenchyma ;
£ but in its interior we find formed at the earliest period a central column of what Sacus
& designates procambium, a 8olid cylinder of very delicate, vertically elongated cells, the
E transverse section of which has in most species an elliptical outline. I have carefully
S traced the development of these procambial tissues in many Lycopods, and can thoroughly
E confirm the accounts given of them by Sacus. Where the first pair of leaves is given
= off in S. Martens, a slender spiral or scalariform duct passes from each leaf into this