S 19. The words *elevation,” © upheaval,” © Aushebung,” © soultvement” have been
E- continually employed by the geologists of all countries, but especially of our own, in
= the loosest way, 80 far as the forming of any definite conception of the play of forces
> or mechanism of the movements is concerned.
S A wide survey of the writings of geologists proves, however, that the notion generally
Ei formed of a © moyement of elevation” is that it is produced somehow by a force acting
@ beneath a limited area and in a vertical line, or nearly s0, and in a direction from below
2 upwards. Commonly it is assumed or inferred that the pressure upwards, beneath the
= area © elevated,” has been that of a fluid, gaseous, as by Von Bucu &c., or more or less
-Z perfectly liquid, as by most others.
2 290. It is true that some geologists (amongst whom was the late Mr. Juxts) had some
> not very clearly defined notions that such machinery of elevation would not account for
= the facts as to eleyated masses observable in nature, especially the frequent smallness of
& area in relation to the abruptness and height of the masses elevated.
= But that this notion, that elevation is produced somehow by nearly parallel forces
S acting radially to the spheroid, is even yet the one commonly maintained we need no
= proof beyond turning over the pages of the latest writers on geology. If we look at the
DV figure on page 285 (2nd edit., 1862) of ScroPE's © Volcanoes,” we shall see evidently that
= such is the notion he formed ; and, without citing further examples, it is that which
5 Hopxrxs distinctly enunciates as his fundamental conception of the matter in his paper
A on © Rexearches in Physical Geology ” (Trans. Cambridge Phil. Soc. vol. vi. part i.),
where he says (p. 10) :—© The hypotheses from which I set out, with respect to the
action of the eleyatory force, are, I conceive, as simple as the nature of the snbject can
admit, of. T assnme this force to act under portions of the earth's crust of considerable
extent at any as8ignable depth, either with uniform intensity at every point, or, in s0me