wholly detached themselves from the testa, «', with which they were connected in figs.
53 & 54. The fourth section (fig. 56) now shows the testa @ as a strong well-defined
membrane of uniform thickness, whilst the crenulated outlines, e, of fig. 55 are now yet
more entirely separated from the testa.
The value of this unique, though crushed, fragment lies in the clear —_ which it
affords us that the remarkable structure e, &, which I propose to designate the canopy
of the lagenostome, originates superiorly in the hard testa of the seed. Fig. 97, which
Qrepresents a portion of the testa a, with the crenulations of the canopy & intermediate
between the sections figs. 95 & 96, further demonstrates the origin of some other curious
Structures seen in sections to be described. At &' a cross bar of the testa unites that
EZ structure with the centre of each of the crenulated curves of the canopy e. In
Sthe other crenulations this bar is imperfect, only projecting from the testa like a
tooth and not reaching the concavity of each crenulation. It is now, in fact, a «mall
Sprojecting ridge running down the inner surface of the testa, but which has disappeared
Zbefore reaching the section 56, a. Figs. 58, 59, 60, & 61 represent a serics of four ver-
Stical sections of another specimen made in parallel planes. Fig. 58 is made nearly
Emnidway between the most prominent lateral surface of the secd and its centre. Fig. 59)
vis made midway between fig. 58 and fig. 60, which latter has been carried exactly through
the central axis of the seed ; whilst fig. 61 is from a plane nearly corresponding with
Sfig- 59, but, on the opposite side of the seed to the latter section. Fig. 58 exhibits the
Stesta « which appears to have been a hard, dense, sharply defined structure, having a
Ethickness of from *01 to +005, but usually having a mean thickness of :006. I have not
Shade able accurately to determine its composition, but there are indications that it con-
Esists of an assemblage of oblong cells. Immediately within it is a second and much
= thinner membrane F, but which obyiously has adhered closely to the inner surface of the