Fig. 94 represents a lateral view of the finest specimen I have hitherto obtained from
the Peel Delph. These Peel specimens usually resemble the nuts of the Salisburia old
in the grocers shops in China, but which are deprived of all their outermost sarcotesta.
But the Peel specimens are even something more than this. There is no doubt that fig. 94
represents a sandstone cast of the interior of the hard endotesta, with a thin film of tisxue
remaining upon the cast, and which, even in these sandstone specimens, retains superficial
traces of the prosenchymatous structure of the endotesta, within which the cast was
moulded. Such specimens do not, in any way, represent the external form of the seed,
as will be shown in my description. The entire specimen in fig. 94.represents the exact
form of the interior of the testa, the lower or tumid portion of it corresponding to the
nucleus with its thin investing membranes, and the prolonged upper portion, with its
three diminishing concave surfaces, of which only one appears in the figure, repre-
senting the interior of an elongated micropyle. It is important that this fact should be
correctly understood, since many of even the most recent references to these secds are
rendered erroneous by a confusion between their external contours and their internal
casts. Thus Dr. Bairouk describes 7. oliveforme as © an ovate, acuminate, three-ribbed,

' and striated fruit or seed ” (* Palzeontological Botany,” p. 63), whereas it was twelve-ribbed,
and we have no evidence whatever that its surface was striated. Professxor NEWBERRY
figures a s1milar example to my fig. 94*, of which he says that it © has suffered little
injury beyond the loss of the fleshy envelope. In this and some others I have seen, the
three conspicuous salient ridges which traverse the surface longitudinally are shown to
be the remains of broad and delicate wings; s0 delicate that they are generally all torn
away with the exception of their thickened bases ”F. All this is, I om satisfied, a
mistake, which 80 acute an observer as Professor NEWBERRY would be one of the first,