78 MR. G. 5. ROMANES ON THE LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM OF MEDUSZ.

perceptibly impaired. TI therefore continued the radial cuts, and found that when
these reached one half or two thirds of the way up the sides of the inner bell (or
contractile sheet), the coordination became visibly affected, and this for the first
time. These experiments, however, did not satisfy me that the coordination was not
chiefly, or exclusiyely, due to the marginal nerves; for the bell of Sarsia is 80 8mall,
and contractile waves are in this genus 80 rapid, that the following hypothesis still
remained open. When the whole margin of Sarsa is removed and the paralyzed bell
s{imulated, so far as the eye can judge the resulting contraction is simultaneons over
the entire bell. Whether this rapid conduction of contractile influence from the seat
of stimulation to all the other parts of the bell is due to muscle or to nerve, is here of
no consequence ; for, in view merely of the fact of such rapid conduction taking place,
it follows that when the four short radial cuts are introduced, even if these cuts destroy
all the nerves by which the ganglionic coordination is effected, snch coordination would
ﬆtill appear to be effected in consequence of the rapid conduction of a mere contractile
wave over the whole muscle-sheet from the ganglion which first happens to discharge.
And, if this is the correct interpretation, we should expect the loss of coordination first
to become apparent when the radial incisions reach about halfway up the bell ; for,
under this form of section, it is then only that a stimulus applied to the margin of a
deganglionated, or paralyzed, bell can be seen to cause in the bell a rapid contractile
wave as distinguished from an apparently simultaneous contraction of the entire muscle-
sheet. Against this interpretation it may be urged, that eyen although the discharge
of a ganglion thus isolated from its fellows would certainly give rise to the erroneous
appearance of a coordinated discharge of all the ganglia, still, if coordination is destroyed