Fill produce a much greater effect than if the contrary be the cage. In short, it may
nerally be stated that the completeness of the effect of a conducting body upon the
S$nsitive discharge depends on the completeness of the capability it possesses of
A rmitting a displacement of electricity within it (caused by the electric disturbances
= tube) without any material alteration of its potential.
B Such experiments as those of the telephone in circuit with the tinfoil and the earth
Bay not unnaturally suggest the idea that these effects may be due to electro-magnetic
id not to electro-static induction. But careful examination negatives this 8upposition.
H the firs place it is not necessary that the tinfoil should have any considerable length
Z the direction of the tube, which is presumably the direction of the current through
EZ. A narrow ring of tinfoil round the tube will give all the results above dexcribed.
Again, if-a coil of insulated wire be placed near or round the tube, no difference is
oduced by joining the ends of the wire. In fact, no difference of effect is observable
Shether the conductor be made up of insulated wire or be a mere mass of metal ; the
hole seems to owe its effect to its being a conductor of considerable size. No form
&f conductor possesses greater effect than a narrow ring of tinfoil connected to earth
by a single fine copper wire perpendicular to the tube, and no conducting system could
be devised more unfavourable to the production of electro-magnetic inductive currents
by the original current in the tube. Moreover, the effect is far too great to be
attributable to electro-magnetic induction in circuits s0 unfavourable to its action. In
8hort, every feature of the case, upon examination, tends to render it less probable that
any of the electric phenomena in the external conducting system are due to electro-
magnetic induction ; and the supposition has been noticed here rather with the view
of showing that it has not escaped consideration, than because it was considered to
have any valid claims to notice.