| gams, viz. :—a single series of cells elongated vertically to the surface of the sporangium,
© and having their two extremities flattened, 80 that the two surfaces of the Sporangium
'& wall exhibit the ordinary aspect of tubular thick-walled parenchyma (fig. 83), whilst
A yertical sections present the aspect seen in fig. 84 or that of cylindrical parenchyma.
'S One of these sporangia is shown in fig. 85, a, enlarged 16 diameters, and contains
three of the Traquarian macrospores. At a” are fragments of two other contiguous
X 8porangia. Throughout the greater part of its extent the sporangium wall, a, exhibits
| the appearance of fig. 84, but here and there its flexures have caused it to be intersected
*S obliquely, as at a”, where it resembles fig. 83. Two of the macrospores are intersected
+8 nearly through their centres, the third one more tangentially, hence its apparent smaller
Z 81ze, The specimen from which this and other similar sections were prepared not only
Z places the vegetable nature of these Traquarie beyond the possibility of doubt, as
S well as demonstrates the fact that they are Lycopodiaceous in character, but from the
3 excellent preservation of the macrospores, throws further light upon their structure.
= That the specimens with tuberculated but unbranched spines (represented by figs.
= 40, 41, and 42, of the earlier portion of this memoir) are immature, whilst those repre-
F 8ented by figs. 45 and 46 are more matured examples, is now clear. I think there is
& no doubt but that in the young state there was a distincb outer exosporium and an
28 inner endosporium. At an early period the exosporium became differentiated into
& two layers. Of these, the inner one (represented by in fig. 42) retained its structure-
Z less, spherical form, being undistinguishable from the endosporium, fig. 42 F”, in all
H points save in its more external position. The outer layer of this exosporium, fig. 42, a,
- on the other hand, underwent a development into a system of ramifying tubes, the com-
£ plexness of which exceeds what T had observed to be sufficiently remarkable when the
+ earlier part of this memoir was written. There is now no doubt that the minute pro-