    'A large Collection of Manuscript Sermons preach'd by several of the most Eminent Divines, for some Years last past, are to be sold at the Bookseller's Warehouse in Exeter Change in the Strand.'



    'This Day is publish'd,

    'An Essay on Criticism. Printed for W. Lewis in Russell-street Covent Garden; and Sold by W. Taylor, at the Ship in Pater Noster Row; T. Osborn, in Grays-Inn near the Walks; J. Graves in St. James's-street; and J. Morphew near Stationers' Hall. Price 1s.'



    'Concerning the Small-Pox.

    'R. Stroughton, Apothecary, at the Unicorn in Southwark, having about Christmas last Published in the Postman, Tatler and Courant, a long Advertisement of his large Experience and great Success in curing the Small-Pox, even of the worst Kind and Circumstances, having had a Reputation for it almost 30 years, and can say than not 3 in 20 miscarry under his hands, doth now contract it; and only repeats, that he thinks he has attain'd to as great a Certainty therein (and the Measles which are near of Kin) as has been acquir'd in curing any one disease (an Intermitting Feaver with the Bark only excepted) which he conceives may at this time, when the Small-Pox so prevails, and is so mortal, justify his Publications, being pressed by several so to do, and hopes it may be for the Good of many: He has had many Patients since his last Publication and but One of all dy'd. He hath also Certificates from above 20 in a small time Cured, and of the worst sort. What is here offered is Truth and Matter of Fact; and he will, if desired, go with any one to the Persons themselves who have been Cured, many of whom are People of Value and Figure: 'Tis by a correct Management, more than a great deal of Physick, by which also the Face and Eyes are much secured; tho' one Secret he has (obtained only by Experience and which few or none know besides) that when they suddenly strike in very rarely fails of raising them again in a few Hours, when many other things, and proper too, have not answered. He does not desire, nor aim at the supplanting of any Physician or Apothecary concerned, but gives his assisting Advice if desired, and in such a way not Dishonourable or Injurious to either.'



    'Angelick Snuff: The most noble Composition in the World, removing all manner of Disorders of the Head and all Swimming or Giddiness proceeding from Vapours, &c., also Drowsiness, Sleepiness and other lethargick Effects, perfectly curing Deafness to Admiration, and ill Humours or Soreness in the Eyes, &c., strength'ning them when weak, perfectly cures Catarrhs, or Defluxions of Rheum, and remedies the Tooth-ach instantly; is excellently beneficial in Apoplectick Fits and Falling-Sickness, and assuredly prevents those Distempers; corroborates the Brain, comforts the Nerves, and revives the Spirits. Its admirable Efficacy in all the above mention'd Diseases has been experienc'd above a Thousand times, and very justly causes it to be esteem'd the most beneficial Snuff in the World, being good for all sorts of Persons. Price 1s. a Paper with Directions. Sold only at Mr. Payn's Toyshop at the Angel and Crown in St Paul's Churchyard near Cheapside.'



    'For Sale by the Candle,

    'On Friday next, the 25th Instant, at Lloyd's Coffee-house in Lombard-Street at 4 a Clock in the Afternoon, only 1 Cask in a Lot, viz. 74 Buts, 22 Hogsheads and 3 quarter Casks of new Bene-Carlos Barcelona Wine, very deep, bright and strong, extraordinary good and ordinary, at £10. per. But, £5. per Hogshead and 25s. per Quarter Cask; neat, an entire Parcel, lately landed, now in Cellars on Galley Key (fronting the Thames) between the Coffeehouse and Tower Dock. To be tasted this Day the 23rd, and to Morrow the 24th Instant, from 7 a Clock to 1, and from 2 to 7, and all Friday till the Time of Sale. To be sold by Tho. Tomkins Broker in Seething-lane in Tower-street.'

